Introduction

March 14
My psychiatrist told me that keeping a journal would help with the therapy, so here I am writing about all my little day to day problems. I burned dinner and Allen wasn’t too happy about it, but if he would help me with the kid instead of playing on his goddamn computer all the time, then it wouldn’t have happened.  I got a call from Timmy’s principal saying that he’s been skipping classes. I tried to talk to Allen about it, but he said something about nearly being level 73 or some such nonsense and continued to play his games. I swear that I married a child and not a man. If he played with me nearly as much as his fucking computer, then this marriage would be a million times better.

March 17
I went to the shrink again, and for the money that I pay him I would think that he would actually do something other than tell me to relax. Everyone tells me “just relax” or “calm down”, but when I ask them to do something or help me out they tell me the same tired old stories about being too busy. Story of my fucking life.  I wish that things would be like they were between me and Allen when we first got married.  But after he got his job, it seems that all he does is work, sleep, play, and shit.

April 3
I think that Allen finally got the hint. We sent Timmy over to my mother’s house for the night and he took me out to a nice dinner. It was the first time in as long as I can remember that he didn’t use the computer for a whole day. He even did things that we hadn’t done since we had Timmy. Somehow I just feel that it is like trying to fix a burnt meal with too much salt.

April 5
Timmy was out of school today because he’s coming down with something. I want to call it the flu, but it’s the middle of spring. I’m really starting to worry about him though, so I’ll take him to the doctor in the morning. His temperature has been high all day and nothing that I do will cool him off. Even the crackpot remedies that Mom told me don’t seem to help him. At least he will be playing hooky for a good reason for once.

April 6
After four aggravating hours in the waiting room, I decided that the doctors can’t do anything for Timmy. It seems like everyone is getting the flu. It was even on the news tonight.

April 7
Timmy has taken a turn for the worse. He is burning up so much that he is delusional and speaking to hallucinations. What scares me is that Allen has now gotten whatever Timmy has.  Whatever it is, it’s very nasty. I guess that the house will be pretty full during the day. Just when I was getting used to having an empty house.  The news said that this new bug is pretty bad, but they won’t say anything else about it. I tried to call the hospital all day and the lines are all busy. I think that I’ll take the whole family to the doctor in the morning.

April 13
My son is dead. Even writing these words doesn’t take the numbness away. I have been crying all day without realizing it. I can’t believe it. I have read the first four words at the beginning of this and it still seems dreamlike. Allen hasn’t gotten out of the bed all day and I feel so alone.

September 18th, 10:49 PM
Something about this half used journal filled me with a desperate urge to buy it. It was retrieved from a sale of a family’s possessions. I guess that my morbid urges are back again. It will be perfect for recording the events of my day to day life.

September 19th, 9:13 PM
Profit margins are up for this fiscal quarter. To celebrate this news, I bought a new Fairlane ZX-11. It was worth every red cent I paid for it.  I took Lucy out again. She was also worth every penny that I spent on her.  Damson, the CFO, has put me in charge of overseas investments. I know that I can do a much better job than any of the other junior executives ever could. Now is the time for me to at last prove it.

September 24, 7:25 PM
After researching the various investments, I have decided that the best opportunity for our company to peruse is to invest very heavily in an up and coming company operating in Hong Kong and Madrid with a large presence here in the US by the name of Celestheal.  They had some kind of experimental vaccine that they were working on that was generating a great deal of interest. I’m not too sure on the particulars because they hid behind a lot of technical jargon. I presented the information to Damson and he gave me the go ahead to pour everything we’ve got into it.

October 1st, 12:01 PM
Today the market took a huge loss. This flu, which they’re starting to call, “The Plague” is really taking people out of action. This hit to our market was offset by a great rise in both the Asian and European markets. Looks like I jumped on the Asian band wagon at exactly the right moment. Celestheal is growing by leaps and bounds. I dumped all of my own personal resources I could into it before the prices rose too high. I’m going to make a killing thanks to this company. Life is good.

October 3rd, 11:37 PM
Lucy won’t return my calls. For how much I pay her for a single night’s work, you would think that she would at least answer the phone more often. Fuck it. I’ll call her again.

October 4th, 8:46 AM
After all the care that I take to keep myself as physically attractive is for naught. My skin is drying out and no creams that I try to sue are having any effect on my dry skin. I still can’t get a hold of Lucy.

October 4th, 9:33 AM
I finally figured out why Lucy isn’t answering the phone. After a substantial bribe I was told that she took a vaccine to help her fight off that flu plague that sweeping the nation. The vaccine thatCelestheal produced. It somehow made her stomach begin eating itself.  What scares me more than that is I invested everything I had into the company that produced the vaccine. But the thing that shakes me to the core, is that I also took that injection yesterday.

October 4th, 12:33 PM
I can’t ever leave my apartment again. Last I heard, the European market collapsed in on itself.  The collapse was a direct result of that damn Plague arriving on of our damn planes. And now it’s ravaging the countryside. The US market is at record lows and there is no solution possible to fix the situation. Asia has sealed it’s borders and won’t allow any details out. I’ve been fired.  All my money was invested in a company that turned humans into terrible freaks. What’s the worst part of all…
I’m one of those terrible freaks.

October 5th, 3:01 AM
This is the last thing I’m ever going to write. I am now a horrid creature that isn’t human anymore. My job and finances are all in the toilet. The closest thing to a person that I love died a wretched screaming death because of a company’s product that I helped fund. I just hope that the shotgun doesn’t leave much of my hideous face. So I guess the next thing for me to say would be something cliché like, “Good bye cruel world.”

Thursday
Out of an entire buildin’, this was all that was worth takin’. I guess them damn scavs got all the good stuff. I found this by a stiff. It seems that I see more stiffs than people. Most everyone that is alive is pretty ugly nowadays. What with that damn syrum thing that messed us all up. It made some pretty ugly folk that you run into wanderin’ around. Though I guess that I am not much of a looker anyhow, after catchin that car bomb with my face and all.

Saturday I was pickin’ at the scabs that make up what is left of my face, when I peeled this off. I think that I am gonna to keep it here, just in case.

Monday
My head hurts. I had to beat a guy with a board and I ended up takin’ his shoes. They don’t fit too good, but they’ll keep my feet from bleedin’ so damn much. It really pisses me off that I have to leave town just because I’m ugly and missin’ most of my teeth. Damn the government for declaring martial law and “seperating” those of us who got all sorts of messed up by that Syrum. “For our own protection.” They’s the ones who need protectin’. Just because I had to be all messed up by that horseshit vaccine to stay alive and that damn car bombd. It’s ain’t my fault. Well at least I won’t be alone, looks like all of us freaks are getting kicked out of town by those “holier than thou” government pricks. Fuck ‘em, we’ll build a better town anyway.

Friday
I found the most pretty woman today wanderin’ with the rest of us refugees. Her name is Tracy and she’s got clear blue eyes. She understands how I feel like none else. I have to be kinda careful though, if I hug her too tight, her skin tends to fall off in chunks. And after a while I guess I can get over her smellin’ like something that curled up and died about a month ago with almonds.

Sunday
Well we finally started that town that I was talkin’ about. We don’t need the government and their damn martial law to rule our lives. We’ll be able to do it ourselves. Seeing how I used to work on ‘em a while ago, I get to fix up the power plant. I’m thinkin’ bout takin Tracy out on a walk soon. She is the prettiest darn thing I ever saw, even if most of her hair is fallin’ out.

Monday
Got the power up and runnin’ finally. Feels like it took forever, but anythin’ worth doin’ is worth doin’ right. The pompous ass of a mayor came down and rambled on and on and on about how important that I am to the town and bla bla bla. The guy never shuts up. I think that I’ll live up here, seein how it’s nice and warm, and nobody ever comes out here, cept when there’s a problem.

Saturday
Tracy came by, and one thing led to another and now she’s asleep upstairs. She sure is swell. I’m thinking about marryin’ that woman.

Friday
Well Tracy and I are hitched. We are goin’ out on our honeymoon at the end of the week. I just gotta teach someone how to keep the juice flowin’ through our grand ol’ town. Man I am so excited.

Tuesday
Got back from my honeymoon. That damn lackey that I taught fucked up my system. Now I gotta get things back the way I like ‘em. The mayor is callin’ a meetin’ tonight to complain about somethin’ or another. That guy never stops bitchin’ and whinin’. The one thing that struck me was what he said that there were rumors of an all out war breaking out in Europe. Somethin’ bout this bein’ as bad as that great war all those years ago. Seems nasty is all i know.

Sunday
Tracy’s got a bun in the oven! We’re gonna have us a little tike of our own! The Doc checked both of us out and said something about passin’ on “geen itic ab normie ladys” or some-such nonsense. Damn doctors always usin’ such big words. Why can’t he just speak English?

Saturday
It’s been a while since I wrote, but I’ve been workin’ on getting my hole ready for the tike and keeping this town in juice. But I now have a son! His name is John Deck Morris. He’s got Tracy’s eyes, and my strong jaw. The Doc says that we gotta keep a close eye on him, cus he got some kinda infection and he smells kinda like almonds Just like my Tracy.

Friday
Went over to the town square and the family got a good ol’ picture taken. Here it is. Ain’t John just the cutest kid you ever did see?

Wednesday
There were some funny rumors of a bunch o’ people attackin’ from far off. I just thought it was ol’ Vinne Two Fingers gettin’ into the moonshine too heavily. Still i’m gonna take Tracy and John to the mountians in a coupla days.

I can’t believe that I paid so much for a half used notebook, but I required it to keep track of my day to day activities. First I shall introduce myself; my name is Sarah Unabridged Webster. Aside from the periodical raids from the local marauders, very little excitement goes on around here. This is thanks in no small part to the small squad of soldiers posted here that have kept the others seperate from us.

Some of those other local children were watching me again. They have a look of disgust when their eyes settle upon me. It is though I bear some unseen stigmata that the others can witness, but I can’t see. They themselves are the ones who were disfigured by the injection. I can’t help it if my immune system is stronger than theirs is. I am saddened that the people that I live with view me with such hatred. I wish that those soldiers would only take me away from all this squalor and back into one of the great shining cities.

There have been whispers of the others banding together and kicking the normal people out of Wasserville. This is dreadful news. We’re just trying to help them in their terrible state. The soldiers are getting nervous about the others. Speaking of soldiers, I had a chance to get to know one of them better. His name is Stephen and he’s a Corporal. Oh is he georgeous in that uniform of his. We must have talked for hours on end about everything.

There was a spat between the others and the soldiers today. The soldiers were trying to get an estimate as to how may others we actually had, seeing how dozens come shuffling in every day. The others didn’t want the soldiers to come into their precious slum for whatever reason. Stephen was shot in the arm by one of the others. Of all the places he could have stayed to recover, he chose my house! He’s sleeping peacefully in the other room right now. Some of the local hoodlums have took it upon themselves to show me and Stephen just how unwelcome we are in “their” town. My wounds will heal, but the emotional pain will linger for quite some time. I can’t believe how they spit in our faces while we try our best to help them with their condition.

My god. They’ve overthrown the government! All of the freaks that we were trying to help and find a way to restore to normalcy overthrew our government! I don’t know what I am going to do. Stephen says that we should try to get to the capital because if there is any government still around, it would be there.

I can hear the people beating at my door. They must have finally had enough of us. I just wanted to be with Stephen and be happy. But they just wouldn’t let us. They are coming down the stairs, if only we had more time to leave. I don’t want to die like th-

3
I puld this from the fingers of thee first kil of the MIGHTY KARL 7.62 BALL. I keep this as a log of the great konquests that I am sure to hav. On this day MY felow kilrs and I have kild over 31 people. Three wer MY victims. There wer few spoils to take, but the foods made it worthwhil. Any victims kild of the enemy are worthwhile during this great invasion of the foolish US. Teach them to call us dirty kiwi suckers.

7
I, the POWERFUL KARL 7.62 BALL hav kild the rats that snuck into MY tent this night. The rats were once best mates of MINE who wished to overthrow ME in MY command of MY men. I was unabl to get information from the vermin before they died. Only a fool would send three tiny boys to kil the POWERFUL KARL 7.62 BALL.

10
I am happy to say that I found a family living along the road we were going on. I hadn’t kild anyone in a month and I was geting bothered. KARL 7.62 BALL, the MAGNIFICENT slaughtered the family of five before anyon knew what I was doing. The house contained nothing worth keeping.

13
Our patrol cam upon an enemy patrol of the despicabl hick military. They ran and hid away from us. It took MY valiant troops the better part of the day to destroy them. While interrogating their cowardly leader I, the TERRIFYING KARL 7.62 BALL learned that the inferior hick military here demonstrated their cowardice by unleashing their nuklear arms on our home land. For this act of cowardac, we will ravage their landscap.

14
We have captured another soldier who has told us, after much interrogation, that the foolish military have let loose chemical weapons on our Chinese allis. He told ME, the ALL KNOWING KARL 7.62 BALL, that unheard of quantities of defoliants were dumped all over our Red mates. Foolish military. The enemy is not made of plant, we are made of honor, valor, and truth!

19
Tomorow the UNDEFEATABLE KARL 7.62 BALL and HIS INVINCIBLE army wil meet their enemies, the capitalistic hick swine, on the field of battl. I know in MY heart we shal be victorious.

This is a roll playing game. To play it you will need a few items. This book, paper, copies of the included character sheets, some 10 sided dice (2 to 10 should be enough), an open mind, and an imagination. You will also need at least two people. One person will serve as the Myth-Maker who’s job is to run the entire world. Every person, the weather conditions, animals, shrubs, even clouds of noxious gas is controlled by the myth-maker. Except for the player’s characters, who are controlled by the rest of the players of Ad Emag.

World View
The world has been through quite a few dramatic changes, so here is something to bring you up to date on what the world is like now.

The world in general
Earth isn’t the fertile garden that it used to be. Due to the plagues, warfare, and chemical warfare unleashed on such an grand scale, most of the world is a desolate wasteland. The few areas that aren’t corrupted are zealously protected by the people and creatures living there. On the majority, the world is polluted by radioactive fallout, defoliants, chemicals of all varieties, or the ashes of civilization.

Europe
Once considered the most beautiful and civilized continent, it has fallen far from it’s former grace. With it’s numerous political and religious divisions Europe was host to the most internal strife, civil wars, and rebel actions. Everyone turned their greedy sights upon their neighbors. Skies were blacked out by the bombs that were loosed by a legion of planes. The earth moved with the boot steps of a horde of soldiers moving to secure more lands. Countless ages of history were rendered to dust by the fighting. One turn of luck spared the continent from the horrors of nuclear weapons. Alas conventional weapons were used in unimaginable amounts to make up for the lack of nuclear arms.

What few pockets of civilization that still exist are scattered and in ruin. Survivors are clinging desperatly to the crumbling ruins of their formerly grand civilization. The georgeous countryside is scarred deeply with bomb craters and rusted hulks of long abandoned war machines. The great cities have all collapsed inward on themselves and offer the inhabitants little more than a new and exciting way to die. Most people stick to the small suburbs that orbit the great cities and scratch out an existance in the gloomy shadow of the ruined cities. Government in Europe is at most isolated feudal kingdoms. Most degrade themselves into nothing more than roving packs of marauders. Traveling from place to place, taking whatever resources the area can provide for them and remaining only as long as the location can sustain them. The marauders roam from place to place like starving locust, always taking and never giving back. The few small feudal kingdoms survive in fortified structures and have the know how and the supplies to repel, and in some rare cases obliterate, the regular marauder assualts. There is no centralized power structure. Like the rest of the world Europe has fallen back on it’s history to come up with the rule that works best. With absolutely no centeral rule, the monitary system of Europe has reverted to the archaic barter system.

Africa
So a great and deadly plague once ravashed the world. It killed off untold billions of people. While everyone was dying scientists and doctors scrambled to find anything that could stop or at the very least slow the disease. The standard methods quickly proved helpless. In desperation they turned to less ethical methods for combating the sickness. One particularly popular idea was that the great and mysterous continent of Africa would hold the cure in one of it’s countless flora or fauna. So hundreds of expeditions were launched to probe the inner secretes of the great African wilderness. countless scores of labs were quickly set up to carry out any experiments that the scientists could concoct. When the pillaged wildlife offered no cure, the scientists used the newly discovered cure-all, the syrum, to continue their mad experiments. They spliced, sliced, and sundered any genetic code they could find and then threw it into a blender with the syrum to see what would come out. The results varied from mildly interesting to the terrifying. At first the experiments were contained or destroyed as necessary by the scientists and anyone they could get to lend a hand. After a time the numbers of experiments skyrocketed. Naturally escapes began happening with more and more frequency. Eventually the thick forests were alive with a new kind of wildlife. This wildlife had the best possible aspects of the animal kingdom. Unknown to those who created these creatures they spied from the shadows of the forest. Patiently waiting and silently watching the creatures learned and grew. In due time they formed tribes of their own and descended upon the scientific community in an all sweeping offensive. That was the last thing heard about Africa. Most believe that it is run by primitive tribal societies warring with one another in the deep wilds of Africa.

South America
Strangely enough of the continents hit by the plague, the one hit the hardest was in fact not the origin of the plague itself. South America was overwhelmed by the plague within days of it crossing the border. Unknown reasons caused the plague spread more rapidly then anywhere else. The whole continent was infected before the first useful drug was created to combat it. The result is an entire continent very nearly devoid of human life, in it's altered state or otherwise. The few survivors survived because of their lucky immunities and have scratched out meager and isolated existences all on their own. To find one person alive is extremely lucky. To find two is rare. Finding a group of people alive in South America is impossible. That does not deter would be adventure seekers from striking off into the vast jungles of South America. As for the massive foot print that the previous inhabitants left on South America with the cities, the jungle has done it's best to swallow it. The cities are choked with vines, trees, and unhindered animals wandering about without a care. Suburbs have vanished in thick growth and the roads were covered long ago.

Antarctica
The great frozen continent. Antartica is the only continent with no native population. Before the plague countries around the world would send their researchers to the frozen waste to discover the secretes encased below the thick ice. These meager populations were kept alive only by the constant supply of foods and fuels sent from their home countries. As the plague ravshed these home countries, the outposts began to have less and less significance. Some researchers were recalled by thoughtful people before things got too bad. Eventually nobody could be sparred to send anything out to such a remote and desolate land. The communications recieved begged at first. They also threatened, pleaded, begged, and finally cursed. Then the communications stopped all together. Most assume that the frozen wastes swallowed up the few researchers and burried their puny stations under a white blanket. These research stations, if found, could contain the very best pre plague scientific supplies in very good condition. Though there is whispered rumors of small groups scraping out a pittiful existance in the frozen wastes desperatly clinging to life. Loathing the world that chose to forget them.

Australia
When the plague ravashed the lands, many nations saw fit to take advantage of their weakened enemies. Other nations saw fit to find new enemies. Australia fell into the final category. During one of the countless meetings of the horrors going on in the world, Australia was insulted. Now people may have been sensitive before the plague, but not that sensitive. This insult must have cut the Australians right to the core. After storming out of the meeting hall the Australian ran home and told the nation of the unexcuseable insult. The whole nation was so enraged by it that they all united behind the diplomat and began to make plans to go to war. Thanks to it’s isolated location Australia was untouched by the plague. While it’s fighting force may not have been the largest or best equipped before the plague, thanks to the plague they had quickly become the largest standing army. But this army alone would not be enough. They sought assistance from an unlikely ally. They found a friend in Asia and were backed with the arms, armor, and money that they so needed. In record time they were prepaired for war and launched their offensive against the wretched Northern Americas. Things went very well with the attack at first. The whole continent was taken by surprise and no retailation seemed possible thanks to the decimated populations. That was not the case. It only takes one person to press a button. That is how Australia became an irradiated wasteland. America dropped the bomb. Well not just one. The whole continent was saturated with nuclear fire. Australia is currently still heavily irradiated and no one has returned from explorations. Miles off the shores the radiation is high enough to break most geiger counters. Anything that may have survived the nuclear bombs would very quickly adapt to become a very strange and unknown creature to this world. Even with all the other freaks roaming about.

Asia
Asia did their best to leap on a moment of weakness for what they thought was their greatest enemy. With the plague ravishing the world, Asia noticed that the northern Americas were sundered to their knees by the plague. Seeing a chance they would never have again, they fully funded and backed the unplagued Australian fighting force to invade. As it became more and more appearant that the Aussies wouldn’t be able to pull off the flawless victory that Asia desired, they unleashed the nuclear stockpiles that were hidden away. For better or worse the estimates of global destruction were overly ambitious. Most estimates put it at around 80% of the nuclear weapons used failed or wildly missed and irradiated the seas. In one final attack the US retaliated by dumping every defoilant possible into Asia. The poisons spread quickly, carried far and wide by the lofty winds. The result was a desert wasteland. With no plants to speak of the soil quickly degenerated into horrid sands that blasted and buried everything. The few who have not fled the continent scratch out an existance in the small oasis’ that tempt travelers, or the brave ones will force their way into one of the former buildings and try to eek out an existance there. Praying every day that the shifting sands don’t shift into their home and bury them alive. The few wretched souls that do scratch out an existence in the sands of Asia do so in small bands lead by a single person, usually the fool charismatic enough to lure people into Asia in the first place. These caravans drool at the desire to salvage untold treasures from under the crushing sands. Most simply dissapear into the sands. Any trading that goes on is usually done at gunpoint, so any currency the stronger wishes to charge rules.

North America
North America got a little taste of every version of hell during the confusion. It got an invasion from a former ally. Chemical weapons launched on it’s cities from home grown terrorists. It is lucky enough to be one of the two manufacturing centers of the syrum production. As a final insult North America was the proud parent of the deadly plague itself. With it being the epicenter of the plague, North America didn’t suffer any more deaths in the population than the rest of the world. It’s governments tried their best to keep on functioning as though there wasn’t a world ending plague ravashing the lands. Then came the unexpected attack from the former ally of Australia. This rattled the nation and spurred it to action. It began with a total irradiation of Australia. Rounding up all the chemical weapons they could they launched a retailation on the nations of Asia. In the process of mustering all the combat able troops to invade Asia, the people of North America reeled at the brutality of the retaliations. In a short time, the people enacted their power to overthrow the governments. The major problem was that there wasn’t any alternative that everyone could agree on. So very quickly the countries of North America descended into anarchy. Factions formed for protection and were swallowed up by other factions. Dictators rose overnight and fell nearly as quickly. Even the noble democracy has failed to reestablish a sensable sort of order in North America. Thus the continent of North America lies as of today, in an unsettled balance of chaos. Thanks to it’s varied landscape of unpleasantness, the game of Ad Emag takes place there. It offers the highest mountains to climb and the lowest depths to descend into. It is possible to travel to, begin in, or stay on other continents, but for the scope of this book, it will assume that the players will stay in the North Americas.
