The Rules

What kind of game would there be if there were no rules? What is to come shortly is the
absolute meat and bones of the game. It is the part that is most boring and exciting at the same
time. So grab a comfortable seat dig in, because here they are.

Attributes
Attributes are what are the absolute basis of your character. Skills, equipment, and back-story
can be lived without. Attributes can not. The most important rule about attributes is that they
may NEVER go below 1 or above 10.
With that happy rule in mind, we next come up to how to use attributes in the game. In
situations where a skill doesn’t cover an action, then a character uses her attributes instead.
For example, you remember Example Joe. He wants to kick down a door. The myth-maker, to make Joe’s life
difficult, opts to have Joe use his Muscles instead of his Unarmed skill.
To roll a character’s attribute to leap tall buildings, seduce guards, create plans of action, or smell
the stink of defeat, is a simple process. First you take a 10 sided die and roll it. If the result is
equal to or under the attribute that you are using, then you succeed. If it’s over, the you fail.
Good luck with that falling, bumbling, planning, and stench....
So with good old Joe, to break down that door with a mighty kick, his player must roll below 3. Holding the 10
sided die carefully, the player casts the die. Unluckily for him, the roll comes up with a 7. Joe does more damage to
his own foot than the door. Perhaps next example he’ll succeed.

Skills
Everyone has their own skills and uses them to get through the day. A skill is a representation of
your knowledge in a given area.
All characters start off with measly skill percentages. Luckily for characters, these values
represent the character’s skills under pressure. During relaxed times, they need not roll for a skill.
It is assumed that they have enough time and reasoning to figure out how to do what they want
to.
On the other hand when characters are under stressful conditions, such as during combat, under
extreme deadlines, or with their supervisors looking over their shoulders, characters use their skill
values. These values represent a how well a character knows a given skill. After all, with enough
time and patience, anyone can do nearly anything. However during stressful times, characters
learn quickly how good they are at a particular skill.
To use a skill during a chaotic time characters select two different ten sided dice. One of the dice
is considered the ten’s value. The other die is considered the one’s value. The dice are rolled and
the number take their places.
For example, Joe has selected two ten sided dice, one black and one white. The black die Joe makes his tens. The
white die he makes his ones. Rolling for one of his skills, the black die rolls to 8. The white die rolls to 4. That
would give him a roll of 84.
To see if a character succeeds or fails a roll, first they roll their dice. If they get equal to or under
their skill’s percentage they succeed. If they role over the percentage, they fail. Is the pattern
becoming apparent?
So we will use Joe’s roll of 84. He is trying to punch a bratty bar patron in the chest. His Unarmed skill is
35%. Since 84 is more than 35, he fails to punch the bratty bar patron. Things aren’t looking too good for Joe.
Say for his next blow, Joe rolls a 35, or maybe a 15. Either of those rolls would be considered a success.

Modifiers
Not all tests of skill are performed in the perfect conditions, and with that in mind, there are skill
modifiers. Skill modifiers are a way of representing things that may help your character when
completing a skill. Such as a manual to help you fix a car, a sight for a gun, ect. Modifiers also
come negatively such as darkness, aiming at a small target, or being blinded, ect.
However you get a skill modifier, simply add it to your skill’s percentage if it helps your skill, or
subtract it from your skill’s percentage if it impairs you.
So using our friend Joe once more, he is now trying to drive his car far away from the bratty bar patron. Unluckily
that bar patron is chasing him and causing him quite a bit of worry. Luckily Joe got a decent set of tires for his
car, which add 10% to his roll to drive his car. Joe has a Drive skill of 45%. To drive away from the patron, he
needs to roll a 55 or lower (45% for his skill, +10% for the good tires). Maybe he shouldn’t pick so many fights,
and just stay in the car.

Critical Success
Critical Successes are when you happen to do a task exceptionally well. They happen from time
to time and they are pretty beneficial things indeed. Mechanically if you roll double numbers on
a skill test and the number is under the skill’s level, then it is considered a critical success. Such as
00% (which would be 0% and is always considered a critical success), or 66%.
If it is a normal skill, then you complete the task exceptionally well and the myth-maker is
advised to grant you a fantastic bonus to the task, be it stitching up a wound and having it heal
without any scars, fixing a car and making it run a lot faster, ect. When you get a critical success
in combat the attack can be anything from instantly killing a foe, to ignoring the target’s armor,
or any other extremely beneficial event the myth-maker wishes to grant you.
To explain we will return to good old Joe. He begins to drive away and takes a deep breath before rolling to drive
away from the irritable bar patron. Luck is with him, he rolls a 44 which is under his modified skill value of
55% (his 45% drive plus the +10% for his good tires). Thus he gets a critical success and drives away
exceptionally well.
A quick side note worth mentioning. Characters can’t ever critically succeed with attributes. it’s
not possible to roll doubles with one die. You also can not critically succeed at damage rolls.
Sorry about that.

Critical Failure
Critical failures are when you fail at something horribly. It isn’t a simple failure, it’s a horrible
one. It occurs when the character rolls a doubles on a skill test and the number is over the
character’s skill. Such as 77% or 99% (99% is always a critical failure). The myth-maker is
advised to make something horrible happen.
Some examples would be like a car that you are repairing is completely destroyed, a person’s
wound is made much worse rather than better while trying to stitch it closed. In combat it could
be anything from a critical success on a friend or ally, or the weapon self-destructing and harming
the user, or or any dreadful accident the myth-maker may wish to deal out.
To demonstrate this, we will pick on Joe some more. While driving away from the bar at break neck speeds, Joe
realizes that the bratty patron has a motorcycle and is now following him. To prevent himself from getting beaten to
a pulp, he elects to try and lose the peruser in some local alleys. He rolls his drive again, and to his dismay he rolls
a 99. A critical failure regardless of his skill. He takes a deep breath and awaits the upcoming pain.
Another quick side note worth mentioning. Characters can’t ever critically fail with attributes.
ever. once more one can not roll doubles while using only one die. Damage rolls also aren’t
something that you can critically fail at either.

Combat and Damage
Combat is a hellishly fast way of dealing with a given problem. The following are the rules for
combat.
Turns
First off, every combat situation is divided into turns. Each turn is around 10 seconds long. All
actions happen relatively simultaneously. But since it would be hard to play out everyone going
at once, each turn is subdivided into each person’s turn.
Initiative
Initiative is a mechanical way of determining whom gets to be the line leader. Although it was
just stated that it was simultaneous, people have to do their actions in some sort of order, and that
is where initiative comes into play. Any actions performed before a given person will effect them
before they are allowed to act out their turn.
The person who initiates the combat goes first. Then highest Initiative gets to perform her
actions next, then the person with the next highest initiative, and so on down the line. If two or
more people happen to have the same Initiative attribute, the have them roll a d10, and the
highest roll goes first, then the next highest, and so forth.
To illustrate the way Initiative works, we shall check in on Joe. After a nasty near wreck from his last example, the
bratty bar patron has opted to try and attack poor Joe. They compare their Initiative scores. Joe has a 4 for his
Initiative. The bar patron has a 3 for his Initiative. Joe goes first.
Actions
After you figure out who gets to go first, last, and in between, everyone is able to attempt what
they wish to. Actions are further divisions of a turn. It’s how many tasks you can do in one turn.
Be it run, jump, shoot, punch, reload, or press a button, they all use Actions, and different
amounts of them, depending on how long it would take to complete.
Joe has decided to demonstrate this by showing how many actions he has. His character has 2 for his actions. Joe
consults the following chart to see what he can do.
And now is another list, the one about action usage.
Walking- 1 per 1 ft.
Running- 1 per 3 ft.
Jumping- 2 per jump.
Punch- 1 per swing
Kick- 1 per kick
Knock Out- 2 per blow
Grapple- half your Actions to hold, can only test to get out if being held
Melee Attack (swing)- 1 per swing
Melee Attack ( stab)- 1 per stab
Melee Attack ( skewer)- 1 per skewer
Shooting or Throwing ( single shot)- 2 per shot
Shooting ( burst)- 3 per burst
Shooting ( full auto)- whole turn
Reloading- as per firearm
Driving- 1 per turn required, and possibly more per maneuver
Dodge- whole turn
Speaking/ Yelling- free
Saving- 1 to all
Any other Actions are to be determined by the myth-maker. Also if you want to take an action
that has a higher cost than you possess, you can complete the action over multiple turns, if it’s
within reason.

Action Descriptions
Now that you know how many Actions you may take in one turn, here’s what they mean, and
their rules.

Walking- Just in case you don’t feel up to running, or can’t.
> Can walk 1 foot per action spent.

Running- If you need to get away quickly, then running is the easiest way.
> Can run 3 feet per action point.

Jumping- To get over what ever may be in your way. Characters may jump double their
Muscles in feet. But you must add up the vertical and horizontal movement.
> Can jump for the amount specified.

Punch- This is using your arm to bring your fist into your target. There are no bonuses or
penalties.
> Melee Damage
> If successful hits the specified target.

Kick- This is the basic way of using your leg to move your foot to injure someone or something.
> +1d10 to your Melee Damage roll
> If successful hits the specified target.

Knock Out- This is making a living creature (that means no robots, zombies, doors, or anything
else that doesn’t live) become unconscious by inflicting trauma to it’s head. This is counted as an
aimed melee attack, meaning the character can use any melee weapons, that cause blunt damage,
they wish to including their fists, feet, or other parts of their bodies. It may not be used with any
ranged weapons.
> Only inflicts 1d10 damage regardless of Melee Damage
> 50% chance of causing unconscious with a successful strike
> Unconscious lasts for 1d10 hours

Grapple- This is just holding someone to prevent them from doing anything to anybody. If you
successfully “hit” your target you get a hold on them. It does no damage, but it prevents your
target from performing any Actions, other than testing to get out of your hold. It also uses up
half of your Actions. To escape from a grapple, you must roll under your Muscles attribute. To
release a grapple, you simply say so, but you still lose half of your action points for the turn.
> Does no damage, but restrains your target
> If successful, target may take no actions other than test (with their Muscles) to get out of the
hold.
> Attacker loses half of their actions to hold their target.
> Target must pass a Muscles test to break free.
> Attacker need only declare that they release their target.

Melee Attack (swing)- This is bringing a club, sword, or whatever melee weapon you may be
using around and trying to hit the person.
> Causes Laceration or Blunt damage
> If successful hits the specified target.
Melee Attack (Stab)- This is taking an item with a point and driving it into the target, then
pulling it out.
> Causes Piercing damage
> If successful hits the specified target.

Melee Attack (skewer)- This is taking an item with a point and driving it into a target, but
leaving it in for whatever nasty reasons. It leaves your weapon inside the target if you successfully
injure them.
> Causes Piercing damage
> If successful hits the specified target.
Shooting or Throwing (single shot)- This is firing a single shot. It is performed by nearly all
firearms.
> If successful hits the specified target.

Shooting (burst)- This is firing 3 bullets every time you pull the trigger. It is nearly the same as
a single shot, but you do 3x the damage, and use 3x the ammo.
> Damage x 3

Shooting (full auto)- This is firing off multiple bullets from your gun with a single squeeze of
the trigger. Full auto requires a full turn to fire. Fires off the amount of rounds under the rate of
fire.
> Damage equals the damage of a single round multiplied by however many rounds hit
> +25% to skill to hit.
> Uses as many rounds as listed for the weapon.

Reloading- This is putting more bullets into a gun. There is no roll, and it simply takes the
number of Actions specified under the weapons section.
> Putts more ammunition into a weapon.

Driving- This is using any vehicle and maintaining control of it. It requires one action point
per turn to simply keep the vehicle going in the direction that you wish it to go. Any offensive or
defensive maneuvers you wish to make take at least 1 additional action point, and may cost as
many as necessary depending on it’s complexity.
> Allows a character to maintain control of a vehicle.

Dodge- The fine art of avoiding blows and incoming attacks. Dodge requires a full turn to
anticipate the incoming attacks. If characters dodge, they subtract half of their dodge’s
percentage from the the attacker’s skill to strike them. Attacks that miss do no damage. Attacks
that strike the character are resolved as normal.
> Uses up all of a character’s actions for the turn they dodge.
> Subtracts all of the character’s dodge skill from the attacker’s skill to strike.

Speaking/Yelling- Sometimes telepathy just doesn’t work, so that’s why we can speak and yell.
In the heat of battle you may need to warn someone of their impending doom. Luckily you can
speak and/or yell all you wish (within reason) in a turn, at no cost. Remember that a turn is only
ten seconds long, so messages must be brief.
> May communicate with nearby people.

Saving- If you wish you can save your Actions for whatever you want to do. All it does is put
the Actions you wish to save below you in the order of Initiative. Saved points that aren’t used
before the end of a turn, are not to be carried over into the next turn.
> May interupt or perform actions after others later in the turn.
> Action points do not transfer between turns.

Damage
Now that you can do things in combat, let’s discuss hurting other things. It’s going to happen to
everyone, no matter how peaceful you may be. There are generally two ways to hurt someone.
The first is to beat them in melee combat. The other is to shoot them.

Melee Combat
Interested in bring pain and death to others, huh? Well if you like to be right up there in the
action and see all the gristly details, then bashing your target with some good ol’ melee combat is
just what you need. That or a good therapist. Melee combat involves you being very up close to
your target. Close enough to reach out and touch them. In melee combat you can use anything
at hand to take care of your foe. Be it a fist, foot, 2x4, sword, or this very book itself. Keep
reading to find the secret of how to melee combat it up.
You can start by picking your target. After your target is picked, choose which method of attack
and note the skill it’s associated with.
We will be securing the services of a fellow by the name of Example Joe. Now Joe is a pretty average fellow. The
only thing is that he tends to get unruly when he drinks. Thus is where we find him. Joe has drunk too much and
has started to pick a fight with a fellow bar patron. Joe reaches for his trusty switch blade knife in his boot and
decides to use it on the bar patron. He’s going to slash the patron in the right arm. Joe isn’t anything ground
breaking in the ways of knife fighting so his Small Melee Weapon skill is sitting at 35%.
Next you determine which bonuses and penalties apply to this particular attack. Add the value of
the bonuses to your skill to hit. Of course you must also subtract the value of penalty from your
skill as well.
So Joe begins to count on his fingers and toes to figure out what kind of bonuses and penalties he is going to have to
deal with to successfully slash this mouthy bar patron. Firstly the target itself is considered a Medium Sized target,
so he suffers a penalty of 15% to his skill. That makes it 20%. Then he realizes that he is right on top of the
bar patron which counts as Point Blank Range. That adds 35% to his skill making it a much better 50%. He
then considers the environment. It’s a dark and smokey bar, but not that dark and smokey. So Joe does not have to
subtract any for those environmental problems. Neither the bar patron nor Joe are moving at all, so speed penalties
are not present. Finally the bar patron is not hiding behind anything so there is no cover penalty. Thus Joe has a
50% chance to hit the bar patron in the arm.
Time to roll the dice. If your number is higher than your modified skill (which you just figured
out in the previous step) then alas you miss. Nothing further happens. If you’re lucky enough to
roll equal to or less than your modified skill then you hit your target.
Joe throws the dice down and he is amazed to find the results. The first die reads, “20” and the second die reads,
“9”. Adding those results gives him his result of “29”. 29 being pretty far below his target of 50, Joe is
successful in hitting the bar patron’s right arm.
If your attack successfully struck your target then you roll the damage indicated. Remember,
your character’s Melee Damage attribute is the amount of damage your character does with their
bare fists. Specialized attacks (such as knock out blows and kicks) may have more or less damage.
Also melee weapons add their damage to your Melee Damage.
Example Joe is a bit of a wuss and as such his Melee Damage is only 1d10. Also he isn’t using a particularly
deadly melee weapon, which does Melee Damage+5. So whatever Joe rolls for his melee damage, when he uses his
knife, he adds 5 to the roll. To demonstrate Joe rolls the damage for his slash to the bar patron’s right arm. Joe
rolls a 7. Add the knife’s +5 damage to the roll and Joe’s slash does 12 points of damage to the bar patron’s right
arm.
If the damage rolled for the attack is less than the armor, the subtract it from the armor’s value
and that’s the end. If your attack’s damage exceeds your target’s armor, then the excess damage
is taken from the targeted location’s Flesh.
So the bar patron is wearing a simple black hoodie which is considered to be Regular Clothing. The Laceration
Resistance for cloth is 8. So seeing how Joe rolled a 12 for his damage, Joe’s slash cuts right through the thin little
hoodie and injures the bar patron.
At long last if the target suffers 10 points of damage or more to their Flesh in one turn, then they
begin to suffer the effects of blood loss. If your target is unlucky enough to have their targeted
location reduced to zero Flesh then bad things happen. In the case of an extremity such as the
arms and legs then the character begins to suffer massive blood loss due to the severed limb. If
the target is extremely unlucky and it happens to be the head or torso then they depart this world
in a most painful method.
Well the bar patron has to suffer some damage for this example. As you recall Example Joe struck the bar patron
for 12 points of damage, yet the bar patron’s hoodie absorbed 8 points. So doing a little simple math that means
that the bar patron has to take 4 points of damage to his arm. Luckily the bar patron has 10 Flesh in his arms.
So after the first slash the bar patron has 6 Flesh left in his Right Arm. Luckily he isn’t suffering any extreme
blood loss damage nor has the arm been cut all the way off. Unluckily Joe still has a trick or two up his violent
sleeve.

Ranged Combat
So you say you don’t like to be up close and personal to your target? Well then the natural
solution is to attack your target from afar with a ranged weapon. Ranged weapons are
considered anything that moves from you to your target through the air. That includes the ever
popular bullets, classic arrows, thrown beer bottles, and even the rare hurled team mate. To send
these projectiles on their way you either need to throw them or use a weapon to send them on
over. The process for ranged attacks are as follows.
First begin by selecting your target and identifying which skill is going to be used to hit your
target.
Seeing how the knife in the previous example didn’t quite do the job for Example Joe, he decides to break out the big
guns. Joe busts out his trusty crossbow. Joe is a fair shot with the crossbow though, with an Archery skill of
30%. He also decides to shoot for the patron’s Torso instead of a trickier shot.
Then decide which bonuses and penalties are to be applied to your shot. Add the bonuses to
your character’s skill and subtract the penalties from your character’s skill.
Once again Joe consults his fingers and possibly his toes to calculate the bonuses and negatives he must deal with.
This time the bar patron has some kind of warning about Joe’s devilish plans. As such he hides behind an
upturned table. So that reduces Joe’s skill by 25% making it a measly 5%. Luckily Joe does not suffer any
penalty for shooting at the patron’s Torso. Another positive thing is the range is still considered Point Blank, so he
gains 35% to his skill making his final modified skill to hit the bar patron 40%.
Roll the dice. If the number that comes up is higher than your modified skill (which you figured
out in the last step) you miss. Sorry, nothing further happens to your target. If the number is
equal to or or less than your modified skill then you have hit your target.
This time Joe happens to roll a 30 on the first die and a 9 on the second die. A narrow hit for sure. But a hit none
the less.
If your attack struck your target, then take some more dice and roll the damage listed for the
ammunition you used.
Joe using a crossbow uses the damage value listed for the ammunition fired from his crossbow. That ammo being
bolts. Accordingly Joe takes 1d10 and rolls it giving him a result of 3. Crossbow bolts do damage of 1d10x2 so
Joe multiplies his impressive 8 by 2 and gets his damage of 16 to the bar patron’s Torso. Maybe he should have
stuck with the knife.
Subtract the damage you rolled from the target’s armor. If the damage you rolled is less than the
armor, then your target is spared damage by their armor.
That tricky bar patron is still just wearing an old black hoodie and as such it’s Piercing Resistance is 2. As such
the crossbow bolt goes clean through his jacket without any pause and strikes the patron heavily in the chest.
If the damage you rolled exceeded the target’s armor then you get to subtract the excess damage
from the location’s Flesh.
The bar patron is going to feel this in the morning for sure. Thankfully the Flesh of his chest is 40. Subtract the
damage of 14 from the bar patron’s Torso’s flesh of 40 to give you his remaining flesh of 26.
Finally if the damage of the attack is over 10 points the target begins to suffer from blood loss. If
your attack reduces the location to zero then the target is in serous trouble. Limbs like the arms,
legs, and associated extra extremities will cause the target to suffer from a much higher amount of
blood loss for severed limbs. If the location was the head or torso, then the target begins to take a
dirt nap.
Seeing how the damage applied to the bar patron’s Torso was over 10 points, he starts to bleed pretty heavily. Today
is not a good day for him. Starting after the next turn has passed Joe loses 1 Flesh from his torso ever other turn
until he can stop the flow of blood from his chest.
Furthermore the bar patron is without any protection from Laceration damage on his Right Arm, as well as no
Piercing protection on his chest. Any new slashes to his Right Arm or shots to his Torso will get no benifit from
armor what so ever. It’s kaput.

Armor
Now that you know how to beat and shoot anyone, some specifics should be mentioned about
preventing yourself from kicking the bucket. Armor is the main protection from that kind of
thing. What is to shortly follow is some information about how to deal with that wonderful
protective armor.
Only one layer of armor counts. As such you will naturally want to choose your best protective
value to absorb the damage. Selection happens before combat, no double layering armor. Such
as wearing a bullet proof vest and using it’s Piercing resistance yet also a metal breast plate and
using it’s Laceration resistance.
Once more we’ll bring our buddy Example Joe in to illustrate. This time he’s got a terrible hangover, so worry not
about him getting violent again. Let’s instead take a closer look at his armor situation. Joe likes style so he wears a
classic black leather biker jacked with an old band tee shirt underneath. Even though the band does rock it’s
protection sucks. As such Joe only wears the shirt for comfort and he uses the leather jacket’s resistances when he
gets in situations. If he should find that his jacket becomes useless (AKA all of one particular damage resistance is
used up) then he does not gain any benifit from the shirt. It’s assumed that whatever blows that ended the jacket’s
usefulness were suffecient enough to render the shirt useless as well.

Attack Modifiers
Size
Gigantic (Oil tanker, city block)- +50%
Huge (House, trailer)- +25%
Large (Car, truck)- +5%
Normal (People, cows)- No modifier
Medium (Arms, legs)- -15%
Small (Heads, tires)- -30%
Tiny (Eyes, bulls eye)- -60%
Miniscule (Dots on a die)- -120%

Range
Point Blank (Can smell their breath)- +50%
Short (Can make out facial details)- +25%
Moderate (Can tell the type of clothing)- No modifier
Long (Can make out limbs)- -25%
Extreme (Can actually see target)- -50%

Speed Differences
Same Speed- No modifier
Minor (10 - 35 MPH Difference)- -10%
Moderate (40 - 75 MPH Difference)- -25%
Major (80 - 150 MPH Difference)- -50%
Gigantic (155 + MPH Difference)- -75%

Environmental
Darkness- -30%
Pitch Black- -60%
Bright Lights- -20%
Blinding Lights- -40%
Loud Noises- -20%
Deafening Noises- -40%
Smoke- -35%
Gunshots (without ear protection)- -25%
Gun smoke- -20%

Cover
1/4 Target Obscured- -25%
1/2 Target Obscured- -50%
3/4 Target Obscured- -75%
Target Fully Obscured- -90%

Personal
Blinded- -90%
Deafened- -35%

So now you see it’s a little harder to hit your target than you though. But don’t fret, because your
the main character of the story, so you have to survive, right?

Minimum Muscles
Nearly every weapon, be it a fire axe, machine gun, or a chain saw, has a Minimum Muscles
required to properly wield the weapon. If you have have equal to or above the minimum
percentage in your Muscles, then you don’t have anything to worry about. If you have under the
percentage, then you start to run into trouble. You suffer a -25% to the skill used to wield the
weapon to strike.

Random Hit Locations
Not all hits land quite where you want them to. Or you just don’t care where it is to land, just so
long as it hits somewhere. Most normal attacks will simply hit the target’s body. But if you wish
to shoot wildly or not take time to aim, then here is the random location hit chart.
Head- 88% - 100%
Right Arm- 75% - 87%
Left Arm- 64% - 76%
Body- 34% - 64%
Right Leg- 17% - 33%
Left Leg- 1% - 16%

Alternate Damages
Sometimes you just don’t feel up to stabbing, shooting, or beating someone. That’s where these
alternate forms of damage come in. Enjoy.

Blood Loss- Blood loss is a silent killer. Most people don’t realize that it is such a bad thing,
until they are nearly dead from it. That being said, here’s the rules for blood loss and all of it’s
fun.
After the damage is calculated from an attack, meaning after you subtract the armor’s defense is
subtracted, every 10 points of damage that a character suffers causes 1 point of blood loss. A
point of blood loss means that every other turn the character loses 1 Hit Point from their body’s
flesh. This loss goes on until the character either properly binds or cauterizes the wound, or
every five minutes (30 turns) the character naturally heals one point of blood loss.
Severed limbs are a little different. Severed limbs no matter how much trauma was inflicted
always automatically earn 10 blood loss points in addition to any other blood loss the character
might have incurred while losing that limb or from other wounds.
> For every 10 flesh lost in a single attack the character suffers 1 point of blood loss.
> Every blood loss point saps 1 flesh from the character’s body every turn.
> Severed limbs add 10 blood loss points to a character regardless of previous wounds.
> Blood can be stopped immediately by being bound up (basic medicine roll) or by being
cauterized by a burning hot object.
> A character’s body will naturally cauterize 1 point of blood loss every five minutes (or 30
turns).

Fire- Fire, if given enough time will kill anything. Here are the associated rules for fire damage.
If a character is wearing a type of armor that is flammable or meltable, then when they are hit
with fire or excessive heat they have a 75% chance of their clothes or armor catching fire. If they
do catch fire, then every turn victim receives 1d10 damage on account of the fire eating away at
their flesh, muscles and such. Fire also ignores armor, unless it has either a heat reduction or an
heats up special note. The fire will remain on the person so long as there is something to feed the
fire. To put out the blaze the victim must roll under 50%. People helping them put out the blaze
add +10% to the difficulty of the roll, but only the victim rolls it.
> If character runs through a fire or is attacked by a fire based weapon, they have a 75% chance
of catching fire.
> Every turn characters receive 1d10 points of damage to every location that is on fire per turn.
> Fire damage always ignores armor.
>To put out fire, every turn that the person on fire has can only try to put out the blaze. To put
the blaze out they must roll 50% or lower. Any assistance adds a bonus of +10% to the difficulty,
making it easier to be put out.

Poison- Poison is the weapon of a quiet assassin. No matter how the poison is delivered, when
it is successfully introduced into the victim, they try to roll under their Disease Resistance in
increments that depend on the poison itself. Once the victim rolls under their Disease Resistance,
they purge the poison from their bodies but not before suffering damage one last time. If the
character fails the roll, the poison will run it’s course and damage them. This continues until the
poison either runs it’s course, it is resisted, an antidote is administer, or it kills the target.
> Once poison is introduced characters must roll equal to or under their disease resistance in
increments determined by the poison.
> If the disease resistance roll fails, the characters suffer damage equal to the strength of the
poison. They must then take another disease roll when the time increment has passed.
> If characters succeed their disease roll, they suffer damage one last time, but the poison is
purged from their bodies. No further damage or disease resistance rolls are required for the
poison.
> If a character receives the proper antidote for the poison, then it is immediately ceased and
does no further damage.

Radiation- Radiation is very nasty. There are no known cures for radiation poisoning, with the
exception being the Syrum. It is a long, disgusting, and painful murderer. It could take weeks,
days, hours, or minutes, but it almost always ends up killing you in the end. After the duration
passes (which is specified under the dose amount) a character takes a disease test. Success means
no penalty. Failure means they suffer the deduction from a random physical attributes until one
falls down to zero. Once that happens, they finally die. The specifics follow.

Small Dose (depleted uranium wound, spending a lot of time with Rotter)-
> -1 per year from a random physical attribute.
Moderate Dose (fallout from nuclear weapon, roaming in a uranium mine)-
> -1 per month from a random physical attribute.
> Characters begin to become very nauseous.
Rules
131

Large Dose (playing near nuclear crater, wearing a flawed NBC suit in a radioactive zone)-
> -1 per week from a random physical attribute.
> Characters have great difficulty keeping any food or drink in them.
> Character’s hair also begins to fall out.

Massive Dose (playing in active nuclear reactor, handling uranium rods)-
> -1 per day from a random physical attribute.
> Characters can do little other than vomit.
> Hair falls out in great chunks until characters are bald.
> Radiation burn lesions begin to develop.

Knock Down- Being knocked down is when a character loses her balance and falls to the
ground due to a blow that she received. Knock down is pretty simple, if the character receives
over 25 points of damage from a single attack, then they are knocked on their asses. This is
applied before armor reduces the damage. To get up the characters must spend 3 action points.
> If a character receives 25 or more points of damage, (before armor reduces it), they are
knocked to the ground.
>Requires 3 actions to stand back up.

Vehicular Damage- Attacking a vehicle is very similar to attacking a person. Vehicles often
have some form of armor on (but not always) and the vital parts have a Damage Threshold (DT)
which is the same as a character’s Flesh. Whenever a vehicle is attacked, all the bonuses and
penalties to hit the vehicle are calculated and modify the skill to hit the vehicle. If the attack is
successful, then it strikes the targeted location, a random location, or it strikes the main body.
Any armor that the vehicle is equipped with for that location reduces the damage by the amount
indicated. Finally the damage is subtracted from the location’s DT.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Engine Area must penetrate the Engine’s armor, then it
damages the Engine itself.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Main Body Area must penetrate the Main Body’s armor then
it damages the Frame itself.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Cargo Hold Area must penetrate the Cargo Hold’s armor
then it damages either the Fuel Tank or possibly any cargo stored inside.
> Any attacks striking the vehicle’s Window Area must penetrate the Window’s armor, then it
damages the characters inside. Characters are allowed their own armor saves if they wear any,
and the armor of the windows reduces the damage as well as the character’s own armor.
> The Other Area varies depending on the vehicle and is handled as the rest of the vehicle.

Healing
Now that you are hurt, it’s time to try to heal the damage. Most people fail to realize that nearly
every form of medicine simply stops the body from dying, then allows it to heal itself. So if you
are looking for a healing potion, or a spell to heal, look somewhere else. It’s not going to be here,
not without a dire price at least. If you want instant healing, then try taking the Syrum, it’ll do it,
but at what price?
The following are the mechanics of what the medical skills do to a character. It might be noted,
since the mutants are so prevalent, all medical skills also include a few other skills, such as botany,
veterinarian practices, and other such fields, so you do not incur a negative to your skill due to
mutated patients. People generally have a decent idea as how to deal with the myriad of
mutations.

Basic Medicine- Basic medicine is the field of preventing immediate death. It can’t do much
more than stop bleeding, set broken bones and sometimes stop internal bleeding. Basic medicine
is usually used to keep a person alive long enough so that she may get to a proper medical
establishment, or into a dark enough hole so that she may lick her wounds to heal.
Basic medicine may,
> Stop external bleeding,
> Perform CPR to get the patients heart beating again,
> Set broken bones so that they may heal properly,
> Slow poisons,
> Stop internal bleeding so long as it doesn’t require advanced surgery,
> Apply the proper bracing materials to prevent further trauma from a spinal injury and/or a
compound fracture.

Advanced Medicine- Advanced medicine is the field that deals more with the long-term care
of a person. It has little to no use in the middle of a fire fight. It must usually be performed in a
quiet place with little or no distractions, and the proper tools. Luckily people can adapt, since a
quiet place and the proper tools are a rare thing indeed.
Advanced medicine may,
> Perform advanced surgery to stop internal bleeding,
>Aid in the healing of already patched up wounds,
> Guide bones to heal properly,
> Treat Poisons,
> Counteract the effects of old age to some degree,
> Assist people in kicking addictions to substances,
> Perform cosmetic surgery,
> Perform surgery to correct some mutations,
> Treat diseases.

Pharmacy- Pharmacy is a different field altogether. It deals with the medicines that are given
for any cures. It is used to identify possible medicines, or an equivalent remedy if the proper
prescription isn’t available. It can also be used to identify performance enhancing substances that
would increase your natural abilities.
Pharmacy may,
> Identify medicines and/or drugs,
> Prescribe medicines to aid in healing times,
> Prescribe drugs to enhance your attributes,
> Find substitute medicines and/or drugs with similar effects if the proper ones aren’t available.

Healing Times
Since you can’t use any miracle drugs (the Syrum will be discussed later) you are going to have to
rely upon your bodies natural healing so that you can return to your normal health. Here are the
healing times for everyone.
Head- 1 flesh every OTHER day.
Body- 3 flesh per day.
Arms- 1 flesh per day.
Legs- 2 flesh per day.
Skin- 1 Absorb point to every location and type of absorbation.
It should be mentioned that the associated medical skills can help with these measly times.
> Basic Medicine does not augment the body's natural healing times, but it may keep a character
from dying immediately.
> Advanced Medicine can double the amount healed in one day.
> Pharmacy depends on what drug is given, see the items section for drugs.
These times are only for days that are spent relaxing and not doing any strenuous activities. If
any such activities are performed, the day’s healing is lost and do not add to the character’s flesh.
While resting though, all of the character’s body heals. Not just a single location at a time.

The Syrum
When the plague hit the world, scientists and doctors everywhere raced for a cure. When the
cure came out, it was called The Syrum, or Syrum. Time was a large issue, so extensive field
testing and long-term effects were not bothered with. People killed each other and rioted for the
Syrum. When they got it, it was a lot more than they bargained for. The specifics of how it
works have been lost, or hidden away, but everyone knows how it works generally. It enhances
the immune system and the healing aspects of the body to superhuman limits. People would
regenerate missing limbs, heal massive wounds, and be cured of all diseases within an hour or so.
Unluckily when the people awoke the next morning, they were horrible deformations of what
they used to be.
If you had a meal before you took the Syrum, your body mistook the genetic material in the food
as your own genetic material, so it spliced them together, making half-animal, half-person beasts.
If you smoked after taking the Syrum, your body mistook carbon monoxide for a gas that was
vital to your survival, so that’s all that your lungs would process, killing you quickly.
Those that survived the physical trauma, mental trauma, and the increased love for suicide, tried
to live out their days. Freaks and mutants banned together (which was easy considering almost
everyone was freakish in one aspect or another) and they fell in love and had children. After a
generation or two it was guessed that the mutations were imbedded on a genetic level,
considering their children and their children’s children had the same flaws that they did.
Everyone discovered that there were certain groups of people that had similar deviations in their
genetic codes, and they began to group together. These groups became a sort of extended family
and with every generation, their genetic code began to steady out. That is how the stable genetic
strain came into being.
As it goes, the governments created a surplus of this stuff and left it with all of the other lethal
“toys”. The children’s children were curious, so they tried the Syrum. They found out that it
doesn’t expire, and it still healed wounds, diseases, poisons and missing limbs. It also made them
more freakish than they already were. So if a character comes upon the Syrum, if they wish they
may use it. If they decide to take it, the effects are as follows...
> Fully heals all of a characters lost flesh in 5 minutes
> Cures all foreign poisons in the body in 5 minutes
> Cures all diseases in 10 minutes
> Purges all Radiation from system in 15 minutes
> Regenerates lost limbs in 30 minutes
> Adds 1d10 mutations in 24 hours

Vehicle Rules
Here are the specific rules for operating a vehicle under combat, and doing things that aren’t
what the vehicle is rated to do.
Vehicles and Combat
Given the rare nature of vehicles, most that are able to find, repair, and fuel their vehicles take
great care in equipping them to protect their investments. It is nearly impossible to find an
unaltered vehicle around. Some have heavy armor plates welded to them to protect their
precious cargos. Others have a king’s ransom worth of weapons attached to them to destroy any
stupid enough to attempt to overtake them. Still others are given more efficient and powerful
engines to blaze past anyone pursuing them. And nearly every vehicle has some sort of booby
trap built into it to disable, maim, or kill anyone foolish enough to mess around with it.

Armor
It’s pretty easy to take any local materials and attach them to a vehicle to serve as armor. As
such, most vehicles have at least one layer of armor on them. The limit for layers of armor is the
same as for people. No more than two layers of armor per location for the vehicle.
When an armored vehicle is attacked it is performed as with personal armor. If the attack strikes
an armored part, the armor absorbs the damage the same way as a person’s armor. It just
usually absorbs much more thanks to thicker armor. Any damage that is above the armor’s
protection value is distributed to whatever unlucky soul or device may be cowering behind it.

Damaging Vehicles
Armor does not always grant invulnerability. So when an attack pierces a vehicle’s armor, it
damages whatever may be underneath. The vital parts of vehicles do not possess Flesh like
people do to represent the amount of damage it can take. Vehicles have Damage Threshold or
DT. It represents the amount of damage an object can receive become it becomes inoperative.

Weapons
Armor can only defend you so much from roaming marauders, so many install weapons onto
their vehicles. Any weapon available may be mounted onto a vehicle. As a matter of fact, a few
weapons must be mounted to either immobile emplacements, or on vehicles.
Vehicles have two types of weapons that can be mounted on them. The first would be weapons
mounted to Soft Points. They include pistols, rifles, and any personal sized melee weapons.
Hard Points are used for the larger weapons, such as support firearms, gigantic melee weapons,
and cannons.
To install a weapon onto a vehicle, one must either find someone to install it, or roll Mechanical.
With a success, the weapon is installed. If any form of remote firing system or moving mount is
desired, it requires another Mechanical roll to install. To use the weapon, it the character must
simply roll the appropriate skill if it is a ranged weapon. Any melee weapons attached can only
be used by the driver during various maneuvers. They would use their Driving skill as opposed to
the appropriate melee weapon skill.

Vehicular Maneuvers
Driving at safe speeds on well established roads is a simple task. Thus it requires no rolls to
perform, with the exception for a single control roll (such as flying or driving) to start up the
vehicle properly. Unluckily many see vehicles as something to be attacked for whatever cargo
may be inside. To avoid attacks from people and other vehicles there are maneuvers that can be
performed to avoid damage as well as inflicting some. They are as follows.

Speeding- Most of the time you just don’t want to go the normal safe speed when people are
chasing you and trying to kill you. If you wish to go faster, you must take a skill test every turn.
If you succeed, you may go up to double the maximum speed. If you fail, you lose control.
> May travel up to double the maximum speed, but must take a skill test every turn.
> Failure means losing control of the vehicle.
> Success means keeping control of the vehicle.

Losing Control- Sometimes you just can’t keep control of your vehicle, when that happens,
you lose control. If you fail an operation skill for a vehicle, you swerve to a random direction,
and your speed randomly fluctuates.
> Any time a character fails a control roll for a vehicle they lose control of the vehicle.
> Losing control of a vehicle makes it swerve in a random direction and your speed either raises
or falls in a random fashion.
> Every turn driver may attempt to regain control of the vehicle.
> Success means that they regain control and may perform actions the next turn.
> Failure means that the characters can do nothing except for freak out and try to regain control.

Crashing- If you happen to lose control and hit an object, you crash. It effetely stops all of
your speed immediately. All passengers suffer 1d10 for every 10 mph the vehicle was traveling to
their bodies. The vehicle takes 1d10 times the speed that it was traveling at in damage to the
location that did the hitting.
> Happens when a vehicle out of control runs into another object.
> All passengers suffer 1d10x 1/10 the speed of the vehicle to their bodies.
> Vehicle suffers 1d10x 1/10 the speed of the vehicle to the location that did the crashing.

Ramming- This is when you get too much road-rage, and decide to do damage to a object,
vehicle, or person with your vehicle. The vehicle being rammed suffers 1d10x the difference in
two vehicle’s speeds. The vehicle ramming suffers 1d10x 1/2 the difference in speeds between
the vehicles.
> Object being rammed suffers 1d10x the difference in speed damage to the location being
rammed.
> Vehicle ramming suffers 1d10x 1/2 the difference in speed damage to the location doing the
ramming.

Sideswiping- This is when someone is driving next to you and you want them to get out of
your blind-spot quickly. The driver doing the swiping takes a skill roll to keep control, and the
vehicle receives 1d10 damage to the body. The driver that gets swiped, must make a skill roll
with a -25% penalty to their skill. The vehicle getting swiped receives 2d10 damage to it’s body.
> Vehicle doing the sideswiping must take a control roll or lose control
> Vehicle doing the swiping suffers 1d10 damage to it’s body.
> The vehicle being sideswiped must take a control roll with a -25% penalty.
> The vehicle being sideswiped suffers 2d10 damage.

Fuel Consumption- Most vehicles requires fuel to function. The exception would be primitive
vehicles that run off of the muscles of the user. Certain vehicles use certain fuels, and they can
not use different forms of fuel, unless you really want to replace the engine with an engine that
consumes another type.
Every fuel is consumed at a different rate, based upon what it is being used in, the efficiency of
the engine, the weight the vehicle is carrying, ect. To prevent players from having to learn
advanced mathematics, fuel consumption has been simplified a bit. First you find out how many
gallons you have in your tank. Then you roll the normal damage for one gallon of fuel, then
multiply it by the number of gallons that you have in the tank. That will give you how many
miles you can travel with how much fuel you have in your tank.
> Fuel damage rolled x Number of Gallons = How Many Miles In the Tank.
Fuel “Damage”
Gasoline- 2d10 x 1d10
Ethyl Alcohol- 2d10 x 1d10
Diesel- 1d10 x 1d10
Bio Diesel- 1d10 x 2
Jet Fuel- 4d10 x 1d10
Electric engines can drive 1 mile for every 10 volts of electricity consumed.
Repairing Vehicles
If your vehicle receives damage, you may try to repair it. A simple Mechanical roll is required to
repair the vehicle. Every hour spent working on the vehicle with a successful Mechanical test
repairs 10 DT.
> Repairing vehicles requires a Mechanical skill test.
> Every successful Mechanical skill test and hour spent working on the vehicle repairs 10 DT.

Experience
Since you have lived through all the trials and tribulations of life, you deserve a reward for your
hard work. That comes in the form of experience. It is a mechanical way of measuring how
much your character has developed and learned over her life.
For every action you attempt, and complete, for every plan you devise, functioning and otherwise,
for every person you save, you get experience. Since some actions mature you more than others,
you can get more experience for some actions than others.

Gaining Experience
Since you know how high you can go, you want to know how to get there. Well here is the chart
for gaining experience. This is for every action you get. It may not seem to be too much just yet,
it does add up, and quickly.
Using skill (and failing)- 2
Using skill (and succeeding)- 1
Defeating a weaker foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 5
Defeating an equal foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 20
Defeating a superior foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 50
Defeating an impossible foe (killing, incapacitating, or befriending)- 100
Completing a job or task- 25
Coming up with a worthless plan- 10
Coming up with a decent plan- 20
Coming up with a good plan- 40
Coming up with a great plan- 80
Coming up with a phenomenal plan- 160
Saving a person- 5
Saving a small group of people (2-15)- 2 x person
Saving a large group of people (16+)- 1x person
Dooming a small group of people (2-15)- 2 x person
Dooming a large group of people (16+)- 1 x person
Risking your own life (and failing at the task, but living)- 50
Risking your own life (and succeeding at the task, and living)- 100
Risking your own life (and dying)- You Lose.
Getting players together- 30
Keeping group together- 15

Spending Experience
Once characters play for a bit and learn the finer points of living in this world, they gather a
large pile of experience. Characters should keep a running total of their total experience just to
keep as some sort of reference to other characters and such. They should also keep a running
total of the amount of experience they have not used to improve their characters.
Yes that’s right, characters spend their experience like money to but better skills and attributes for
their characters. Way back, you took the time to make derived attributes that give you the cost of
improving your character. So the following will demystify those two attributes a little more.

Skill Cost- The cost for improving your skills depends on how much brain power you possess.
The more powerful your brain, the easier it is to improve skills. So it’s not just brawn that helps
you survive the day.
> Skill Cost- 20 - Learnable.

Attribute Cost- So it would logically follow that if your brain is for skills, then your body is for
attributes. The better your character’s metabolism is, the faster that it can upgrade itself and
renew it’s parts. So...
> Attribute Cost- 1,000 - (50 x Metabolism)
