Stable Genetic Strains
Amoebas
Excerpts from, “Mafioso Mo-Fo, a memoir by Router Howard”
“I was born into privilege. Our family was the biggest baddest family around for a
hundred miles. We had our fingers in every delicious pie. We had the local law boys resting in
our pocket. All the shops gave us our due cut. The nearby farmers always gave us their best.
The body politic served only as our mouthpiece. Even the local militia was bent to our will.
Money came in hand over fist and my every desire was satiated. Being the firstborn the legacy
was all mine just as soon as Papa Pachinko kicked the bucket. Considering what I had to gain, is
it a surprise that I had him whacked? When he fell, I rose. Taking the mantle in my hands…”
“Times were great then…”
“I should have suspected a power play was going on. Din-no wanted to know just a little
too much about what we did. Just how he managed to get Torque, my best and most trusted
body guard, to turn against me, I have never learned. The offer Din-no gave me was irresistible.
Give him the reigns of our family and leave in exile, or get whacked. If I ever get my hands on
that double crossing bastard…”
“It was next to impossible to scrape together enough coin to eat, much less find a place to
stay. I squatted in abandoned apartments. The other residents would scream the most disturbing
things through the night. “Jesus Christ is an alien!”, “There’s a robot in my tooth!”, “I am
suddenly aware of my tongue!” were some of the more memorable rants that would keep me up
all night. That’s where I found Septum. She was a gorgeous thing. Totally nutty, but good
looking none the less. I lived in that hell hole for about a year eating scraps I would find around
the neighborhood in desperation and starvation. But you’d be surprised what you can do when
you have to…”
“Eventually Septum and I decided to form a little group to better ourselves. We had a
stinking rotter nerd named Buck Starr, a wretch of a man named Thogngh, and of course the
real freak Septum. We had some great adventures…”
“There was this one job we got where we had to deliver a tupperware container across the
wastelands. This guy who called himself, “The Overlord” wanted to have a secure message sent
to some of his cronies. So his grand idea was to put it in some tupperware and tie it closed with
some string. Well the curiosity eventually got to me and one night after everyone went to sleep I
had to see what was inside. I couldn’t believe my eyes, the bastard meant to…”
“After that great score of pre-Plague tech, we got split up. Thogngh fell into a pit of
drugs pretty hard. He got mixed up with the wrong people and the pain just got to be too much
for him. Septum opened up a general store. She sold only the weirdest crap, like broken bottles,
lint, scraps of used paper, and bobble head people. Septum must have really lost her mind after
seeing the depths of Ft. Mayer all those years ago. Though all of us were pretty changed by that
day. Buck caught a face full of axe after a particularly tricky game of cards. Of course it didn’t
help that he had owed me quite a bit of money at that point and I may have suggested some
cheating going on. As for yours truly, I found the love of my life. It was an ancient throne hand
crafted with fine perfectly aged leather. The throne is so plush you just sink down when you sit.
And the gems dazzle and sparkle in the sunlight just right. I also managed to work a coup to
reclaim what was taken from me by Torque and Din-no. They’re heads now rest on either side of
my throne. So it’s from my love that I decided to write these memoirs…”

Physical Description- First off, Amoebas are not fat. They’re chubby, portly, husky. But not
fat. One unifying feature of most Amoebas is their weight. Worst of all, it’s not their fault. As a
stable genetic line, they are all overweight. Another striking feature of the Amoebas is their skin.
It is a shiny and smooth skin. Their skin has the same texture as a plastic doll’s skin would be.
The final common physical trait among Amoebas would be their sluggishness. It’s not that
they’re lazy, they are just resistant to doing any unnecessary physical activities.

Mental Description- The Amoeba’s mental faculties are sharpened to a razor’s keen. They
are forever honing their ability to manipulate those nearest to them. Amoebas are very purpose
driven and when they set their minds, not much can deter them from their goals. When
situations require them to be they are loyal, friendly, and even slightly outgoing they can be. Yet
normally they brood, sulk, and quite are lonesome. Amoebas have memories that stretch back
quite far when remembering any offenses against them, yet their memories unexplainably
become faulty when trying to remember any instance where they have offend anyone else. They
also have quite a memory for those who do right by them and as such Amoebas will actually put
forth effort to repay them. Even if it is only to prevent their friend from having any kind of
leverage over them. Ultimately they seek to come out on top of any deal that they participate in.

Names- To select their names, the Amoebas reach far back to the pre-plague days for
inspiration. Owing their strain’s forefathers they name their children after the great stars of the
days before the plague. Unluckily the years haven’t been kind to the memories of days long since
passed. Such being, the names that they use tend to be distorted versions of the famous’ names.
Some examples include, Mickey Moose, Jamie Deans, Paris Milton, and 75 Cent.
Home- The great life is a hard thing to forget. As a result the Amoebas can be found in the
largest and oldest sprawling mansions left over from the pre-plague days. Some of these
compounds are inhabited by the ancestors of those who lived there before the plague broke out.
Family Description- Amoeba families are usually large and include the entire extended
family. The whole family is run by the eldest living person in the family. Be they man or woman.
These families lie, cheat, backstab, and vie for whatever favors and prestige they can get within
their family. The ultimate punishment, short of death, is to be cast out of the family.

Religion- Believe mostly that there is a higher power above them. They just don’t care much
more than that about it. It leaves them alone, so the Amoebas will do the same. Unless you
count pre-plague celebrities and the Amoeba’s near fanatical worship of the celebrities.
Reasons for Adventuring- Amoebas only leave the house when it is absolutely necessary.
They much rather the seclusion and protection of their families and send out their underlings to
the world. Those Amoebas that are found out of their families’ compound are usually trying to
expand the controlled assets of the family itself. Those who aren’t out for kinder reasons are out
in the real world because they’ve been exiled from their families.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Why do all the hard work yourself when you can just as easily
hire someone to do it for you. That’s the opinion of Amoebas. They would always rather have
another person do the “dirty” work for them. So their preferred arms and armor are anything
that their lackeys can use well enough.

Usual Occupation- Amoebas will take any work that gives them a margin of power over
others. It must have little to no physical labor involved either.

Strain History- Nearly every Amoeba can trace their family’s history back to the days before
the plague. That long line connects directly to a celebrity of that time. Be they a famous
political figure, movie star, artist, or just a spoiled child of the famous, they all turned into
Amoebas when the syrum was taken. The syrum’s perverting effects worked to undo all the hard
work they put forth into their bodies. With the pain and horror they faced after the Syrum
warped their bodies into bloated, glossy, hulking creatures, the Amoebas all retreated behind
closed doors and put their vast resources to work building a base of power for themselves. As the
madness spread and the governments crumbled around them, they began calling in favors,
making bribes, and performing their power plays. As such Amoebas have secured a place where
they have little to fear from any who are hopeful to overthrow them from their little kingdoms.

Mutations- (34) Allergies, (35) plastic skin, (36) silicone flesh, (77) overactive stomach acid
production, (92) lethargic.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Abstract, +2 to Bones.

Other Negatives- -1 from Tendons, -2 from Skin.

Boars
“Anarchist’s Declaration” by Flack Sloan
I was raised in the crammed livestock pens. Forced to eat the processed remains of my
brothers and sisters. I have watched my closest friends become your dinner. That is why I must
be a revolutionary.
You may be asking yourself, “Why should i listen to this braggart?” Firstly I have led
hundreds of men and women in countless battles to overthrow a host of oppressive pricks. I am
also the originator of the famous “Flack Maneuver.” If that doesn’t sell you then keep this in
mind. In a world where the slightest error leads to your death, everybody waits patiently for the
most slight hint of weakness, where living and thinking earn you a price on your head, I have
survived for 47 years.
I must fight with my last dying breath to prevent even one person from knowing the
horrors I have known. The enemy are the cruel overlords who oppress anyone for their own
gains. The man who forces others to till his land for little to no compensation. The woman who
weaves a net of deception and lies to enslave with “credit” and “currency”. Even the he/she who
uses raw violence to force labor.
Curious what you can do now that your heart is enflamed? Well follow these easy steps
and before long you’ll be a celebrated hero of the downtrodden.
1. Seek a local revolutionary cell. They are well hidden from most normal people thanks
to the price on most revolutionaries’ and escaped Boar’s heads. Be prepared to let them find you,
and not the other way around.
2. Once you become a member of the hidden cell take any advantage you can of all the
training your fellow revolutionaries may offer. You can never have too much training.
3. As you and your fellow freedom fighters become more efficient at your trained
regiments begin to secure supplies you will need. By any means you have available secure your
supplies, including lying, cheating, stealing, and if absolutely necessary murder. You should
acquire as much of the following as you can,
• Sturdy melee weapons (axes, clubs, or well made knives)
• Personal protection (heavy padded clothing, bullet proof cloth, shaped metal plates)
• Food and water (enough for a month of isolation for every member you have)
• Any working communications equipment (CB radios, television broadcasting)
• Alternative locations for retreat under the worst circumstances
4. Continue to train even more. Remember, you can never train too much, right?
5. Refine your techniques with others. Distribute your talented people around your local
cells. Never keep all your most skilled personal at one location together.
With all those preparations accomplished you should be ready to start sticking it to The
Man. While you’re putting The Man in his place, don’t forget to free your fellow captive
brethren. In fact while those fellow now freed buddies are hanging around, try to get them to
join the cause. Have them fill your depleted ranks or even start new cells themselves.
Remember though we may be broken, killed, tortured, or slaughtered, the spirit of
revolution can never be destroyed. With your hard work we are one step closer to freeing the
world from the clutches of The Man.

Physical Description- The boars are vertically challenged. Luckily good things come in
small packages. Their stature is short yet stocky. Their skin is a bit on the rough side and to
further enhance this they have short and stiff bristles covering their skin. Their faces pull out to a
snout of sorts complete with a pair of small tusks. Boars also have a cute little curly tail on their
backsides. Just never tell them it’s cute, you’ll regret it. The final physical feature that the Boars
are identified by would be the near constant rumbling in their bellies. Only freedom, or a
staggering amount of food, can quiet their stomaches.

Mental Description- Boars are always seeking the underdog, the downtrodden, the long shot.
When they find a person fitting one of these descriptions they imeadiately throw everything they
have to help them out. Until the Boar believes that the downtrodden underdog has come on top.
Then they will switch sides without second though or doubt. Care is always to be taken when
dealing with the Boars though. For they are very quick to anger. The knowledge of knowing
that they have a price on their heads, they savor it all, and fight for change. They live hard, fight
harder, and die fast. Luckily for most the Boars are moved to joy even quicker. Yet when things
become difficult and waste starts hitting fans Boars are always the first to raise arms and join the
fight.

Names- Typical Boars abandon their “given” name, which is typically a serial number of one
sort or another. Rarely some will keep the number as their name to always remember the reason
they started fighting in the first place. Boars that take a second name and renounce their given
name choose half remembered bits of military jargon and termonology. Some colorful examples
of Boar names are, BR70383, P1178, 362436SWF, Snafu, Fubar, Rug Bomb, and Ella Pincer.

Home- Being constantly on the run, Boars do their best not to become particularly attached to
any place they call home. None know when they’ll have to make a last moment dash never to
return. As such the Boars all look for hidden places to call their own. Abandoned underground
train lines, neglected apartment complexes, flop houses, hidden caches, underground hide-outs
all make excellent canidates for Boars to live in. The more desolate, secluded, and disgusting
looking, the better for them. The less people want to go explore the Boar’s home turf, the longer
it remains hidden.

Family Description- In the stock fields the Boars are kept together with no particular
attention to family groups. Without time or ability to form and cement family bonds, escaped
Boars do the best that they can to form their own families. They consider their friends to be the
only family they have and need. They also view personal relationships to be shared with
everyone equally and manogamy is a concept that is beyond their understanding.

Religion- Boars have very busy lives filled with preperation for the next valliant fight, scouting
of new locations to run to, and gathering people to their cause. As such the Boars do not heed
any religion in particular. They would much rather spend what little free time they have enjoying
the fruits of their lives rather than being tied down by a religious ideal and ritual.
Reasons for Adventuring- The only option for a Boar to stay alive is to fight. Fight against
the person who condemned countless Boars to slavery and death. Fight against others that would
put others down. Fight against anyone who doesn’t agree with their ideals. That being the case,
Boars quickly learn that they can not have much impact alone. To find others with similar ideas
and morals to join them in the fight is a great boon. Thus most Boars seek to find groups of
people to adventure with so they can have the best possible chance of making a difference.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Boars draw a lot of their strength from the militaries and
freedom fighters of the pre-plague days. Their preferred arms and armor are easily any preplague
military hardware they can get their hands on.
Usual Occupation- Boars usual occupation, surprisingly enough, is as freedom fighters. They
are revolutionaries at heart. Anywhere the man puts someone down, you can bet that there’s a
group of Boars waiting and biding their time to strike and destroy the man and his incidious
macinations.

Strain History- In the years before the Plague ravaged the planet’s population, people ate
pork. It wasn’t a particularly popular meat, but some liked it well enough. The problem arose
when the Syrum was administered after the consumption of pork. The eaters of pork awoke the
next day to find themselves transformed into hybrids of pork and man. Unluckily for the Boars
all of the conflicts that arose from the destabilization of the world’s governments led to mass
warfare. In the process of the conflicts the livestock populations were decimated, and the greedy
meat loving people turned their eyes to the next best thing. Hence began the enslavement and
conversion to a stable food source for the rest of the world. Nobody liking their dinner to ask
questions about the ethics of being eaten, the farmers selectively choose to breed the intelligence
out of the Boars. For the most part it succeeded, but every once in a while a Boar is born with
enough intelligence to notice that their station in life isn’t a fair one. So they fight to escape.
Then fight to live. Being a farmer’s source of money, any Boars found outside of the pastures
where they feed typically have a bounty on their live return. This bounty varies from farm to
farm, depending on the amount that the farmers actually have available to pay.

Mutations- (15) Snout, (16) curly tail, (39) pigskin, (52) dwarfism, (55) overactive digestion.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Senses, +2 to Muscles.

Other Negatives- -1 from Skin, -2 from Stored.

‘Bot
Resume of B. P. Hammer
Employer- Earl Lewis Smithington XXVI
Terms of Contract- Short term protection.
Details of Job- Fairly decent client, once you got past the nickel and dimming. Lived in one of
those communes, you know the kind that those Immune live on? Anyway Earl wanted me to
cover him while he picked up some supplies at the next town. Seemed simple enough, go in,
make busy, split. As it turns out the townspeople didn’t look so kindly to the Immune. After I
cracked a few skulls they left well enough alone. The shop keeper initially wanted to refuse Earl,
but some comments about where I’d leave my axe changed his mind. On the way back with a
rucksack full of basics (seeds, bolts, flint, etc) a posse of rednecks from town thought they would
ambush us. Suffered some minor injuries, left them much worse off.
Fee- Mr. Smithington paid me with preserved food stuffs (some pretty delicious jams and jerky)
and a free patching up by the town doc.
Employer- Molly Nbdenum
Terms of Contract- Long term protection.
Details of Job- Wanted me to guard her while she worked. Snooze-o-rama at first until she
started trying to sleep with me. She didn’t take rejection too well and tried to drug then
experiment on me. Luckily for me she messed up something with the drug. Subdued her then
ran.
Fee- Took some compensation from her lab, then bugged out.
Employer- Demo L. Tion
Terms of Contract- Short term assault.
Details of Job- Approached by a member of the group, “Freedom Uninhibited Coalition of
Kindred Spirits.” Cute gal by the name of Demo offered me an irresistible smash and grab. We
were to hit Sassafras Farms. Kill any resistance, which was estimated to be under trained and
geared slavers. Then snatch any “livestock” that was well enough and smart enough to come
with. Things started pretty standard with an unusual surprise making it a cake walk. Then
before I knew it, the job was done. Pretty freaking easy.
Fee- All the loot i wanted off my kills as well as marvelous 12 gauge shotgun.
Skills- Good with big bashers, you know axes, maces, even the rare sword or two. I know my
way around most long arm rifles. Decient enough at tracking. I have a fair knowledge of
electronics use, matience, and repair. I am also very good at hand to hand fighting.
Education- Three tours of duty with the North Salem Defense Force. After that learned from
the School of Hard Knocks. Been selling my skills for 6 years to anyone who made it worth while
to me.

Physical Description- ‘Bots get their title from a shorthand for the word robot. Most who
have little to no actual contact with ‘Bots believe that they are robots instead of people. Truth is
that the ‘Bots are in fact people with a very singular features. The first feature that gives the
robotic impression is their metal skin. Their skin is a cold reflective metal. The second “robotic”
feature is the mechanical limb. Every ‘Bot has one limb that is a collection of springs, wires,
sheet metal instead of flesh and blood. Which limb is a trait that is passed on, like all mutations,
from the mother of the ‘Bot to the child. Over all the ‘Bots are tough cookies and they look and
act the part.

Mental Description- Due to the typical ‘Bot’s job being a gun for hire, they think
militaristically. Always planning for escape strategies, terrain layouts, strategic points, and field
value are things that usually weigh in the back of their minds. On the rare chance that a ‘Bot is
allowed to let his mind relax and wander, one can bet that their mind goes straight to the nearest
and biggest party. ‘Bots work very hard, and they let loose even harder.

Names- Thanks totally to the assumption that they are robots, most ‘Bots are named after old
tools and mechanical devices. Some classic ‘Bot names are; Socket Wrench, Allen Wrench, Multi
Meter.

Home- When a ‘Bot looks for a new home to make their own. The first step they do is find a
very defensable location. Buildings with a good view of the lands around. Then the building
itself should be made of strong and durable materials. Finally when they select the perfect home,
they make it their own by further increasing the defenses of the house with any materials they
can find.

Family Description- When a ‘Bot is on the job they don’t usually have the time or spare brain
power to play the field to find a little love. Off the job they rather enjoy the persuit of intimate
attention. But once again because of their dedication to their jobs, any ‘Bot relationships are
usually short lived. Though they never seem to complain about it.

Religion- In an unexpected contradiction to their hedonistic relationships ‘Bots have strong
religious beliefs. They further the the robotic misconception by being pivitol members of The
Church of the Analogue. The Church of the Analogue believes that technology is an
embodyment of divinity. With research progressing at a snail’s pace after the plague, technology
that was created before the plague is considered the apex of technology. The most revered of
pre-plague technology is the deadly nuclear bomb.

Reasons for Adventuring- Finely honed combat skills, a family legacy of combat duty, and
natural armor, it would be a shame if ‘Bots didn’t adventure. They do it because it’s what they’re
good at and it gives them a rush that they can’t find anywhere else. Though the cold cash and
gear doesn’t hurt either.

Preferred Arms and Armor- ‘Bots like their gear to be just like they are. Big, flashy, and well
maintained.

Usual Occupation- If they do what they do best, ‘Bots will do something in the line of fire.
Their usual jobs are hired mercernaries, bodyguards, soldiers, and hit-men.
Strain History- Long ago in the days before the plague, there were those who were
handicapped. The world did its best to give these people any advantage to help overcome their
handicap. The most popular method involved using artificial materials to re-create missing
limbs. When the syrum came into contact with the handicapped, it not only cured their
handicap, but it served to strengthen them more than those around them. As the governments
crumbled and dictators worked to fill the gap, ‘Bots found and secured their place as muscle.

Mutations- (22) Metallic bones, (26) leaden skin, (51) natural battery, (76) mechanical limb,
(85) receives radio waves.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Bones, +2 to Muscles.

Other Negatives- -1 from Tendons, -2 from Abstract.

Brains
The Effects of Pre-Plague Media on Isolated Peoples
In this essay I propose to demonstrate the effects on isolated towns who have access to pre-plague
fictional literature, dramatized video media, and graphic dominated mini-books. The towns I
studied had a historical use of fictional materials being studied as non fictional materials. I shall
call upon mostly rely on my first hand personal experience to write this essay and support my
hypothesis.
My beginning observations began in a small post-plague town of Ashland. It’s population
numbers extremely low at around 50. The majority of the town has retreated to the safety of a
strip mall that was built long before the plague. The town, many years before any can remember,
moved their government to a bookstore. As the years passed the town leaders and the novels they
used to make their decisions became more and more mystical. The system of government went
from a bureaucratic mess of red tape to a council of elders that made all the decisions for the
good of the town. The elder council, which called itself The Council of Nine, was composed of
nine elder members of the tiny town. For the most part The Council of Nine were content to
pass rulings between small personal disputes that occurred in the town. To sustain itself the town
traded various reserves it possessed from the substantial inventories of the stores they lived in.
Unfortunately all the extremely valuable goods that this small town would produce regularly to
barter for food with attracted the wrong kind of attention. A couple of raider attacks and the
town had lost all of it’s technical manuals and nonfiction worth taking as well as the bulk of the
expensive luxury goods they had in large amounts. The townspeople of Ashland had to come to
grips with a terrifying prospect. Learning to produce their own goods from scratch once more.
As fate would have it, signs and organization that separated the fiction from non faded.
Eventually the town’s elders began to trust the fictional word as truth. Eventually through much
trial and error the town rediscovered the age old secret of agriculture.
This in itself isn’t remarkable. The remarkable part is their singular decision to interpret the
pulp sci-fi books and comics as instructional manuals in the ways of combat. They are the
progenitors of the philosophy of The Book. The Book teaches that “the first way to master a
combat form is to make one out of necessity in the heat of battle. The second way is to observe
how the great heroes from ages past fight, based on the recounts in our revered library.”
Though the idea may seem laughable in a laboratory, time and time again it’s been proven that
the methods are exceptionally effective. Speaking from personal experience (I am a 10th level
Barbarian and have made great use of the techniques that I learned along the way to defend
myself) the techniques are difficult and clumsy in the beginning. But after the first year
everything seems to fall into place. Amazingly enough these people managed to create a useful
martial art from fictional sources.
Now another interesting parallel is the entertainment hub of Silicon. The Scions of Rewind
model their combat form after pre-plague action movies. They are divided on the subject of the
source of the most useful teachings. The followers of Enter the Fist believe that the best
teachings can only be gained from the far eastern movies. Their polar opposite believe that the
best forms of defense are garnered from right here in the great west. They call themselves the
followers of Shwartz-A-Fisty. It’s amazing to see two separate cultures both adopt amazingly
similar misinterpretations of ancient pre-plague media and apply it in a real world setting.

Physical Description- Brains don’t look too different from what normal humans once looked
like. Their skin color varies depending on their ethenicity. Their hair color varies pretty
normally from nearly white to jet black. A Brain’s weight also covers the range from rail thin to
portly and overweight. The one difference about Brains would be their heads. Their heads are
overly large and swollen looking. Further to contain all the smarts of a Brain, their brains swell
up. Their skulls and skin can’t keep up and gives up trying about half way through a Brain’s
development leaving cracks and large sections of their brains exposed to the world around them.

Mental Description- Thanks to that gigantic noggin of theirs, Brains are all quite intelligent.
They all have a common thirst for knowledge and a unlimited mental potential. Though this
brilliance does come at a price. When they find a subject that catches their fancy, Brains will be
driven to understand their focus to the point of forgetting the little things. Little things like
personal hygean, prior appointments, upcoming events, impending danger, sleeping, even
maintaining their bodies.

Names- With such an investment in the scientific fields, most Brains even donate their names to
science. The usual names are derived from scientific terms and theories. Some popular names
include, Co Sine, Resonance, Myocardial Infarction, Ethn Ology, Kelvin.

Home- Brains are the most picky of the strains about the place that they call home. They
require locations that have advanced facilities that can help them progress their own personal
knowledge. Meaning they need all the fancy equipment and any books they can get their hands
on for their house. Also a need is present to prevent outside influence on experiments, Brains like
places that are clean and can be kept clean. No wrecked buildings need apply. Another favorite
option is a constant flow of electricity to the building. Alas beggars can’t be choosers, so Brains
rarely get all that they want without sacrificing something for it.

Family Description- Because of their scientific history, Brains have a very unique view of
families. They see the family as a means to create a better future generation. As such a Brain
will select a partner that they believe will produce the best results when combined with their own.
After conception, the Brain and their partner will remain with the child and attempt to pass on
all the knowledge that they possess. When both partners have instructed their child in all that
they can, the child is allowed to go into the world and increase their knowledge.

Religion- Science doesn’t typically play well with religion. They both try to cancel one another
out. Brains are scientists, one and all. As such most Brains do not worship any particular religion
heavily. The Brains that do have faith in a higher power put their faith into The Church of The
Analog.

Reason for Adventuring- When a Brain becomes full of the knowledge of their parents, it is
expected of them to go out into the world. This leaving of the nest is for two reasons. The first is
to recover knowledge lost during the plague and the disasterous events afterward. The second
reason is to collect field data, formulate theories, and put their theories to the test to advance the
post plague world.

Preferred Arms and Armor- If a Brain is forced to cary a weapon and wear armor then
they will have what is considered cutting edge items. These prototypes they usually make
themselves or they get the prototype from a close friend or family member. These weapons and
armor either fail miserably or they perform beyond anyone’s estimate.

Usual Occupation- If it wasn’t obvous until now, Brains are typically in a field of research.
They prefer to work on the side of theory and leave production and field testing to others if
possible. Unluckily they must take matters into their own hands all too often when it comes to
their prototype devices.

Strain History- As the world panicked over the plague wreaking havoc on everything, the
scientists of the world kept their cool heads. They went through the paces and did their best to
find a cure to the plague. A startling thing began to creep through the scientific community. The
usual suspects for disease eradication, much less control were having no use. Conventional ideas
started running out as the plague hungerly devoured human life. Then the unconventional ideas
ran out. As the ideas started running out, scientists began turning to experiments that were much
less ethical. Injecting bleach into convicts veins, genetic engineering of humans, prolonged
induced fevers, and dozens of other terrible methods were employed to try and hault the progress
of the plague. None had any effect. Then an unknown lab manned by unknown scientists came
out with the quicksilver-like cure to the plague, nicknamed “The Syrum”. The first prototype
syrum was greedly horded by the scientists themselves and in due time the result was the first
large hatred of a stable genetic strain. The scientists all transformed into what later was called
the Brains. As the rest of the world became mutated freaks also, the initial hatred of the Brains
cooled to a jovial dislike. While the opinion of the Brains was changing, the Brains secured their
place just as they had in their previous lives as the scientists and researchers of the world.

Mutations- (13) Uncovered brain, (28) abnormally large head, (56) inherited memories,
(79) absent minded, (92) lethargic.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Stored, +2 to Abstract.

Other Negatives- -1 from Bones, -2 from Muscles.

Dryads
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand. Six one thousand. Seven one thousand.
It seemed that the events had a gravity of their own. The most terrible of things always seem to
start as the simplest and easiest of situations. But these are the musings of an old man, and I
should
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand. Six one thousand.
stick to facts. Sounds like it’s getting closer. When I was young my father told me that when I
saw lightning to count. When the thunder crashed, that was how far away the storm was.
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand.
Sounds like the storm is getting closer.
I should have read the signs. Subtle as they were, I am trained to read them. This wasn’t my first
negotiation by far. And now the burden will rest on my shoulders for the rest of my days. Its all
coming down around my head. The whole thing began as many of these do, over land. It’s not
like there isn’t enough of it to go around nowa days. The participants first pretended to “have
everyone’s best interests in mind”. Bull.
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand. Four one thousand. Five one
thousand.
The discussions seemed to go remarkably well at first. That should have been a warning. Instead
my first warning was a provision that worked me out of the negotiations. Me! The negotiator,
banned from the negotiations!
One one thousand. Two one thousand. Three one thousand.
After that, it only got worse. The Einhorn Sindicate first cut me out of the negotiations. Then
they made the negotiations a “private afair” and cut out the public. The last straw was when
they actually worked the other party, The Red Shirts, right out of the deal. I have never been so
blind sided during a negotiation. It’s starting to look like this old man won’t get another chance
to make the same
One one thousand. Two one thousand.
mistake. The shelling is getting closer. The Red Shirts were clear when they said that they would
not stand for this travesty. Who could know that they had a full artillary battery. Or that they
would use it to shell the city to rubble.
It’s ironic. I’m an old broken man, in an ancient breaking city.
One one thousand. Two---

Physical Description- Dryads really stand out in a crowd. The first and most striking feature
is their skin. The skin of a Dryad has more in common with a tree’s bark than it does with
regular human skin. It has the same rough texture, brown color, and about the same thickness as
bark. Another special Dryad characteristic is their “hair”. Instead of being soft and silky, a
Dryad’s hair is made of small twigs, leaves, and in some cases even flowers. Dryads stand out in
crows in less metaphorical ways thanks to their extreme tallness. They have a normal range of
weight, but their heights are a full head taller than others around them. The final major unique
Dryad feature is their ability to go for long periods without eating any food. Their hair can
absorb sunlight and their feet draw nutrients from the soil. The draw-back of surviving this way
is the Dryad must keep their movements down to a minimum to reduce the amount of energy
needed to live. When Dryads survive like this for any amount of time, they are very easy to
mistake for actual trees. A final feature that few know about is the Dryad’s sight. They perceve
the world in a different way than everyone else. How exactly nobody knows.

Mental Description- Given their slow plodding nature as well as ability to survive without any
outside input, Dryads are minorly withdrawn. When you do draw a Dryad out of their shell they
are friendly, intelligent, and full of insight only gained from observing people for a long time.
They are also known for having a mind for details and figures. Though their minds bend closer
to the areas of law and linguistics rather than the sciences.

Names- Being so alike to plants, Dryads steal their names from plants naturally. The more
rural they are the more well known common names. The more sophisticated city dwellers prefer
to have more fancy latin or greek names. Some examples are, the rural Sunflower or the city
Helianthus Annuus, the rural Linseed or the city Linaceae, the rural Birch or the city Betula, the
rural Olive or the city Olea Europaea.

Home- In an unlikely twist the withdrawn Dryads prefer to make their homes deep in the
center of the towns that they live in. This is owning to their typical job being so closely
associated with the town’s governments. Their actual homes are crafted from natural materials
found close by. In the parks of their neighborhoods rest the tired forms of the Dryads who need
some time away from the rigors of life.

Family Description- Dryads’ families are unique. Not in the structure, which is a normal
nuclear family, but in the living situation of the Dryads. They live together about half the time
and the other half of the family member’s time is spent in deep thought in the neighborhood
park soaking up some sunshine.

Religion- Dryads do not practice a solid institutional religion. They all have a very personal
beliefs in nature itself. The Dryads follow a varying level of pagan worship of nature. The level
of ritual varies person to person. From a simple abstracted belief that don’t have any real impact
on their day to day activities to a full on rituals that are practiced on very specific dates and times
to pay homage to a myrid of gods and goddesses.

Reasons for Adventuring- Thanks to their stable nature and ponderous nature Dryads very
quickly find jobs in governmental and negotiatory posts. As such to find a Dryad adventuring is
an unusual occurance. From time to time Dryads will take matters into their own hands and
form an investigatory body for a town if one is lacking. Being investigators they are required to
journey out to look into leads and track suspects down.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Dryads are always getting in trouble for their preferred armor.
They really enjoy being all natural, AKA nude. Though those who experience with combat
quickly change their opinion of going “all natural”. When selecting materials to protect
themselves they gravitate twards natural materials such as wood, leather, or bamboo. For arms
the Dryads also go natural. Poisons delivered by any means they can come up with is the
standard means for those dastardly trees.

Usual Occupation- With respect to their longevity and their penchant for law Dryads find
themselves stuck in local governments. They serve as the arbitrators, judges, and investigators.
They can be generally found doing anything where an impartial third party is required. This can
be frustrating at times, so frustrated Dryads can be found performing other similar jobs. Such as
bounty hunters and organized crime lawyers.

Strain History- There was a movement that existed before the Plague that called it’s members
Vegans. They believed that injuring animals was morally wrong. As such they did not consume
or use any products that were made from or injured animals. When the Vegans were lucky
enough to get the Syrum, the only thing in the Dryad’s system were products made from plants.
The warping effects of the Syrum turned the Dryads into the one thing they could consume,
plants. As the times of anarchy raged around them, the Dryads did their best to stay out of the
conflict and some notable personalities even fought for peace. Unluckily they didn’t succeed for
some time. As the battles died down and the dust began to settle the Dryads were considered the
closest thing to an impartial third party in nearly every dispute that arises.

Mutations- (6) Elongated limbs, (20) leaves and bark, (42) poisonous blood,
(59) altered perception, (61) photosynthesis.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Senses, +2 to Sub-conscience.

Other Negatives- -1 from Skin, -2 from Muscles.

Freaks
So you dweebs need some help getting sweet diggs of your own, huh? Well listen up, ‘cus i’m
only gonna tell you all you need to get a great pad and make it your own. So pay attention, ‘cus
i’m only writing this once.
1. Scout out your diggs. DO NOT run in and grab whatever you feel like. Pick a place that will
fit your needs. (eg. a good place to hide, a good place to defend, or whatever) Once you find a
building that fits your needs get comfortable somewhere hidden and watch your new home for at
least a day or two. You’re watching for any people or wildlife who had the idea to snatch the
building before you did. Last thing you want is a family of Croakers surprising you one night,
right?
Tricky Tip: To help pass the time why not try my favorite game, God Save the Queen? It’s
pretty easy and all you need is a bit of string, an apple (or any fruit really), and a statue of
Buddah. Nothing helps you pass the time quietly and quickly like a good ol’ game of GSQ.
2. Once you’re pretty sure that you’ll be the only gato staying there, check the place for any signs
for anyone else. If you find any fresh signs get out of there and watch the place for longer. If
you see someone or something go in or out of the place you might want to think about finding
yourself another pad. When you’re as sure as you can be that it’s empty and will stay that way
get to work cleaning your pad up. Choose a room or place that is out of sight of the outside for
your own space. Wouldn’t want anyone peeking in on you without knowing, right? So get rid of
all the crap you don’t want in your new home.
Tricky Tip: Leave any rooms you can see from the outside dirty, hell go for broke and wreck them
even more. The worst the rooms look, the less likely people will take the time to investigate your
diggs.
3. With your pad all squared away grab any supplies you’ll need to make it comfortable.
Definately grab the usual suspects, cans of food, candles, your personal water snatcher, whatever
else. Just don’t forget some less common gear. Such as tool kits, radios, your personal library,
pets, or some spare clothing.
Tricky Tip: Instead of laughing at those old art supplies you always find, try taking them back to
your diggs. You’d be surprised how much you’ll like a place when it’s all prettified just the way
you want to.
4. With all your fancy shinies taking up space in your new diggs, it might do you to beef up your
place’s protection. These largely depend on your building itself, your own personal requirements,
and what kind of crap you have available to do it. You really want to fight the urge to make a
bunch of lethal traps though. It would be a real shame if your new main squeeze wanted to
surprise you and instead got all corpsea-fied, wouldn’t it?
Tricky Tip: If you have stairs in your pad, put an extra board or whatever on just one step. Most
everyone will trip on that step and make a racket. You get an announcement whenever someone
comes and those that enter your diggs get a painful mistake. And all without that mess a body
makes!
Well i think that i’ve given you quite enough info to get comfortably dug in. So quit reading this
and get to work on getting a pad of your own!
Until next time peeps,
Anti-Tragus

Physical Description- Freaks are the most colorful of the stable genetic strains. Each family
has a certain “theme” that is passed from mother to child. These family themes focus on a
particular idea or concept and repeat this over the entire body in what looks like a full body
tattoo. These themes range from numbers, like lucky seven, to concepts such as penitance for
past offences. Another often overlooked feature of the Freaks are their hands and the extra finger
they posses. In an interesting twist the Freaks all share a nervous condition. When they are
excited, nervous, or angry their skin secretes a thick, brownish, waxy mucus. This mucus dries
very quickly when it secretes out and when it does dry it becomes tough enough to serve as a
protection from small attacks.

Mental Description- Instead of being manipulative, brooding, aggressive, or fierce Freaks are
oddly laid back. Freaks like to take things as they come and make due with what they have.
Eternal optimists and mercably protected from the predijustices most other strains suffer from has
allowed them to not be as high strung as some other strains.

Names- The Freaks all hail from the freaks of the pre-plague world. As such they have a great
collection of artists. These artists sometimes used traditional media such as paint, sculpture, and
written word. The families that come from traditional artists use traditional art supplies,
methods, and theories for names. Notable examples include; Prussian Blue, Perspecitive, and
Fractal. Those Freaks that come from the ancient freaks who used their own skins as media for
expression get their names from tattooing and body piercing lingo. These notable examples
include; Otto Clave, Prince Albert, Five Needle.

Home- Edgy and extreme locations are where you typically find Freaks. Crumbling apartment
complexes, shopping malls, and restraunts. They are inexorably pulled to buildings that existed
before the plague. The older the better. Once they have their dwelling secured they go to great
lengths to “decorate” them. Decoration includes smashing windows, spray painting obcenities,
and furniture made from empty beer cans.

Family Description- The Freaks have families as varied their ink. They run the gambit from
huge extended families of friends, to very close partners, and even a lone soul. You can usually
find Freaks in the middle ground though, living in nuclear families of two parents and their kids
living together until the kids are old enough to move out with spouses of their own.

Religion- Figuring out the Freak’s typical religion is nearly as difficult as finding the Freak’s
typical family structure. You can find Freaks practicing any religion available to worship. From
Born Again Satanist fanatics to non-worshiping Nihilists. Though there are members of the
fringe religions, most Freaks are Agnostics who generally believe in something above them, but
they don’t know what it is and not knowing doesn’t bother them.

Reasons for Adventuring- Freaks adventure for the same reason that young people typically
leave the nest. They long to see the world and experience excitement before they go to settle
down with that “special someone.” As such they tend to adventure out in the world and have a
good time for a few years, then they return home and settle down with their spoils.

Weapons & Armor- Being eternal optimists the Freaks usually just work with what is available to
them. So they’ll work with materials on hand to create their weapons and armor. If the funds
and supplies are available the Freaks prefer to have shiney guns and “bullet proof ” clothing.
They understand that it isn’t always (or even often) possible to get such wonderful toys. So they
work with scrap metal, shanks, slings, and zip guns.

Usual Occupation- When out and adventuring Freaks try to work with their artistic strengths,
thanks to not being particularly fantastic at any military skills. But they make up for this by
providing creative input and other secondary skills. When they finally finish sowing their wild
oats, Freaks settle into occupations with artistic aims, such as traditional artists or body artists.

Strain History- In the days right before the plague, a social group became dissatisfied with
humanity. They realized that we all have the same two arms, the same two legs, even the same
two eyes. So they did all that they could to to change what they had. They altered their skin with
tattoos, their faces with metal piercings, some even went as far as amputating small parts of their
bodies for the aestetic of it. These freaks, as they were called back then, took the syrum and it
took their body modification to a whole new level. Their tattoos spread to their whole bodies. As
the world lamented their corrupted fate, the Freaks rejoiced. They had exactly what they
wanted. As the world mutated, warred, and became turned upside down the Freaks settled into a
nice soothing habit. As such they remained the only source of normalcy while everything else
went to pieces.

Mutations- (37) Tinted skin, (43) hardened secretions, (44) breath smoke, (50) extra fingers,
(70) hemophiliac.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Skin, +2 to Senses.

Other Negatives- -1 from Bones, -2 from Sub-conscience.

Immune
The Grizwald Family Recounter
Well howdy Everybody! It’s me, good ol’ Aunt Ruth. Just writing this out to bring all the
family back up to date on all the craziness that’s been happening. Let me begin by wishing
everyone a very happy month of November. It’s been a long year so far, but the year is going to
pick up speed and before you know it, there’ll be another year behind you. We also have a few
birthdays to celebrate this month. I’m sure everyone will join me in wishing the following a very
special day, Erik Virgil Grizwald IX a happy 26th, Lucy Andorra Stanley-Grizwald VI who looks
younger every year, and finally little Herbert Bennett Grizwald II has his very happy 4th birthday.
So enough of my birthday ramblings, let’s get to the rest!
Let’s see, first thing’s first, Gregory Randolph Grizwald XVIII is looking for a hand
again. It seems he’s found yet another “treasure” map. Anyone interested should go talk to him.
Just go to his shack off the compound and I'm sure he’ll tell you all about it. Just be warned that
most think that he’s a few bottles short of a six pack. He means well and is a good man, but he
has a weakness for old maps and conspiracy theories.
Next there’s Clemens Mortimer Grizwald IX who just opened a new general store. He’s
got a great selection of a little bit of everything, including a great selection of live bait. So stop
on by you can’t miss it. The shop, Frogger’s Goods, is just off the main road near the side gate.
Nancy Erin Parker-Grizwald III and Harvey Valentine Grizwald XXXVII are
celebrating the birth of their sweet daughter, Katharine Alexander Grizwald XIX. She was born
a healthy and happy 6 lb. 13 oz. She’s as cute as can be, and we’re all looking forward to
welcoming her into our little community. Anyone who has any infant clothes that their little tykes
aren’t using are asked to donate them on over to Nancy and Harvey for little Katharine.
Speaking of our little community of Grizwaldenburg here’s some of the more interesting
events. A coulpa nasty ol’ marauders came through here and wanted to shoot everyone and
everything up. Luckily the Grizwaldenburg’s Regulars were quick to move in and keep them as
far away from everyone as possible. Still mayor Gracie Gilmore Grizwald Jr. did as she always
does and bought them off with money from our treasury.
Another thing of note is that the city council has passed a new resolution. Resolution
#378941 is to begin construction of a wall around our fair town. Those who supported the
resolution say that the wall would keep nearly all possible marauders at bay. It would also
invigorate our little town’s economy. Those that opposed the resolution, myself included, claim
that the wall will be ugly, overly expensive, and force more and more aggressive marauders to test
their mettle on our fair town. But either way, it’s coming, so anyone interested in working on this
project should visit the city council’s offices.
And with that, that’s all that has happened to our happy little community since last little
newsletter.
Hugs & Kisses
Aunt Ruth

Physical Description- Immune are just as the “normal” people would be if they didn’t ever
take the syrum. Because well, they never took the syrum. The Immune run the whole spectrum
of humanity from ebony African to alibaster European.

Mental Description- When living in the safety and security of their communities Immune
live carefree lives of relative comfort of home life. Those Immune who venture out into the
world and become lost in the slums or entangled in a net of slavery have totally a different
mentality. They are downtrodden, defeated, and nervous all the time. Though this probably
stems from random beatings, constant abuse, and the ever present chance of a long drawn out
death at the hands of an angry mob for no particular reason.
Names- The Immune really like their names. As such they reuse family names over and over
again. use family names over and over again. Notable names include; Maximilion Von Wanton
XVII, Sadie Elidah Constance XIV, and Kurt William Sinclare LIX.

Home- In the best of worlds the Immune live in isolation on their compounds with fellow
Immune. These sprawling communities house dozens of families and can have populations up to
hundreds. These communes have measly defenses and mostly rely on concealment or flat out
bribes to buy off attackers. In other worlds Immune make communes themselves in the slums
and huddle together with the other dredges of society for everyone’s common safety. In the worst
of worlds the Immune find themselves enslaved to brutal masters. The chains that bind them
may be finical in nature or just good old fashoned brutality.

Family Description- The Immune live in large communities that are very tight knit and
closed off from the other strains. These communities have to stick together to protect itself from
outside aggressors. These communities are formed by around a dozen families. These families
can trace their history to at least the time around the plague. The households house the whole
family from the great grand children to the great grand parents. Marriages are typically arranged
by the elder relatives to prevent inbreeding of the children. When outside of their compounds
they are usually living as beggars and stick together in slum communities, or worse surviving as
some slave to a malicious owner.

Religion- The old Christianity seems to be favored religion of the Immune. The exception to
this occurs with the Immune found outside of their compounds. Those away from their families,
found in slavery, can be found practicing any religion available. Though the religion seems to
depend heavily on the religion that their masters practice.

Reasons for Adventuring- Most Immune adventure to try and improve their lot in life.
Either to escape their vile master, break free of the slums, or to break away from the depressingly
normal life. As such they will jump with any group that’ll bust them out of their lot. As such
they often find themselves in worse situations than they were trapped in before. But the option to
improve their lot is worth any price they can pay.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Even in their communities the Immune are poorly equipped.
They don’t have much money to work with to start and the other strains don’t want to give
anything to the Immune. Well anything but violence. As such most Immune have to deal with
very shoddy items or craft them by hand. In their communes they manage fairly. Outside the
communes they have to live with rags for protection and poorly made shanks as weapons.

Usual Occupation- Inside the communes the Immune are allowed the opertunity to practice
any trade they wish. The compounds do their best to remain self supporting. Outside the
compounds most Immune’s job is vagrant, beggar, or slave. The options are pretty limited for the
Immune outside their compounds.

Strain History- The world experienced a plague the likes of which none had ever seen. It
killed without rhyme or reason and when you became infected, you might as well get your afairs
in order. A lucky rare few were naturally immune to the disease. These few were at first poked,
prodded, inspected, and interrogated to discover the source of their protection. No reason for
their immunity was ever found. After the syrum was discovered everyone abandoned the
Immune’s testing. While everyone was mutating and changing into terrible parrodies of
humanity, the Immune were normal as ever. At first the Immune kept airs of superiority, but as
their numbers shrank things changed. The other strains began to see the Immune as
representations of all that they had lost. Shame turned to anger. The Immune slowly became
effegies for all that the world had lost. So the long standing tradition of abuse began.

Mutations- None.

Other Bonuses- None.

Other Negatives- None.

Leathernecks
Transcript of a sermon as spoken by Father Mickey Lutheran
Father Lutheran- Scans the crowd. Takes in everyone amid a great ruckus of clapping and
cheering. After he has had enough he begins. “Greetin’s mah brethren. I do appreciate you all
commin’ togethah on such a hot day.”
Crowd- Various cheers and agreements to the temperature.
Father Lutheran- Wipes the sweat from his brow with a bright red rag, “Now i won’t waste
youah time with long introductions. Yall know me, and i most definitely know all yall.”
Crowd- Responds with cheers, laughter, and agreement.
Father Lutheran- “You see i have a great subject i must speak of to you. The subject is the
rampant evil lose in tha world. Tha evil as yall should know is the written word.” Scans over the
crowd once more.
Crowd- “Boo! No!”
Father Lutheran- Takes in the crowd’s jeers. Calms crowd down enough to speak again with a
wave of his hands. “The written word nearly killed us all. You see, before the great Plague, all
mankind became buried deeper and deeper under a mountain of words. It got to tha point
where people didn’t even wanna to talk to nobody without it being written out, certified, and filed
away with the propa authorities.”
Crowd- “Amen to that fatha!”
Father Lutheran- “The great Plague was the wake-up call that we needed to free ourselves from
the oppressive weight of those spoken words.” Pauses while he scans the crowd. “The Syrum
advanced us past the need for that tedious written word.”
Crowd- “Hallelujah!”
Father Lutheran- “We have advanced to where a man’s word IS his bond!” Pauses once more to
look over crowd.
Crowd- Seizes the brief pause and start chanting “Amen” and “Hallelujah”.
Father Lutheran- After a bit calms crowd down once more with a wave of his hands. “Now you
may be wonderin what all this has to do with yall, and i have to tell yall I'm gettin’ to that.”
Crowd- A few isolated whoops and hollers.
Father- Points directly into the crowd. Continues, “You see, YOU must do YOUR part. The
first thing you can do is don’t work in the slightest or buy nothin’ from someone who writes those
damnable words. Especially if they try to get you to write even a single little word. Don’t give
them nothin’. Not anythin’ at all.”
Crowd- More cheering and hallelujahs.
Father- “You want more? I said, do you want MORE? Then you can seek out the written word
and destroy it with purifying fire!” Pauses and scans the crowd. Looking for something in
particular it seems. “The more words burned the less- Hey! You!” He’s pointing. He’s pointing
at me. “Are you writin’ this?! EVERYONE GET HIM!” Oh god i have to get out of he-

Physical Description- Tall doesn’t even begin to describe a Leatherneck. Big and tall may
scratch the surface. Leathernecks are very large indeed. Think of the biggest person you know.
Then make them a full head taller than you and add an extra hundred pounds to them. That’s
about how big Leathernecks are. On top of this large frame is a georgous hide covered with a
fine and lovely feeling hair. On top of all this are a pair of large horns for more than just
decoration.

Mental Description- The sight of all the wanton murder combined with the heartless
treatment of their families makes for less than stable people. Not having stability in their younger days the
Leathernecks constantly seek any form of stability that they can discover. A universal constant is
that the Leathernecks always latch on to oddball cults and religions. These cults serve as an
extended family that the Leathernecks always desperatly desired, but were always denied.

Names- Being so heavily influenced by the philosophers, cult leaders, and religious figures they
like to take their names, or what they can remember of their names. As such the names are a bit
distorted. Some favored Leatherneck names are; Roch Thériault, T. Don Hibbard, and David
Korunch.

Home- Cults can get to be pretty large. With large cults, you need a large place to keep them.
So Leathernecks and their cults need large buildings to live in. Leathernecks in the market for
realestate search for warehouses, aircraft hangers, and any other large sized buildings. They
equip these buildings with enough sleeping space for the whole of their cults. When it comes to
the leader they get their own seperate living space to collect their thoughts.

Family Description- Leathernecks don’t have families in the strict sense of the word. Thanks
to growing up on the stockyards and being traded around like objects. Whenever a Leatherneck
does escape the stockyards, they imeadiately look for guidance. They universally find oddball
religions or cults. The Leatherneck quickly adopts the cult members as their own family. As the
Leatherneck rises in the cult hierarchy they begin insisting on the cult members do the same. As
a result the Leatherneck forms a family of their own.

Religion- The stranger the cult or philosophy, the more the Leathernecks love it. They are
strangely drawn to them like moths to the flame. The largest group that attracts Leathernecks is
the church of the Born Again Satanist. They believe that Christianity had it’s chance and the
“good book” clearly states that it’s time for the other side to have some fun. So the members of
the church go forth and indulge any desires they have.

Reasons for Adventuring- Leathernecks that leave the safety of their flock only do so for one
of two reasons. The first reason is to escape their masters and enslavement. With any luck they
only need to do this once in their lives, but the risk of return always exists because of the price
farmers put on their heads for a safe return. They are livestock after all. The other reason that a
Leatherneck would escape slavery would be to spread The Word. What The Word is exactly is
up to debate and varies largely from Leatherneck to Leatherneck. But it generally represents the
faith of their religion.

Usual Occupation- It’s no surprise that the Leathernecks use their cult leadership status as
their occupation. The cult members are expected to bring all their earthly materials to the cult.
These posesions are of course the property of the cult and all money goes straight to the all cult
members. Leathernecks would never keep the money for themselves. Or would they? With
enough members and land the Leathernecks can create a self sustaining commune with the
money that the cult members “donate” to the cause. That is if the Leatherneck doesn’t get
greedy with the money.

Preferred Arms and Armor- When you have dozens of people willing to do anything you
tell them, why would you ever want to use a brutish weapon? The Leathernecks would much
rather have their cult members do the dirty deeds for them. Though in desperate times, when
the flock is away or non existant, a Leatherneck will do what is necessary. They prefer to do the
work with their bare hands and faith that providence will guide them true.

Strain History- American men love meat. They would eat it for every single meal if they were
allowed. Their favorite meat of all was the beloved cow. These men were once the largest and
strongest men around. When it came time to die of the plague or take the syrum, they happily
took the syrum right after a nice steak dinner. The next morning the beefiest of men awoke to
discover that they were in fact now beef. They had become the one meat they loved most. So
they eventually tried to settle back into their lives. As governments collapsed others tried
unsuccessfully to replace the previous government. The replacements weren’t squeemish about
using violence to get what they wanted. One of the first victims were livestock. Pretty soon the
cows, pigs, and chickens became short in supply. About that time everyone discovered that the
Boars and Leathernecks were a pretty good alternative. Pretty soon the farmers stopped raising
regular livestock and began raising Leathernecks and Boars instead. Leathernecks were
preferred because they were much larger than the Boars. Farmers started breeding the
Leathernecks for meat and not for their brains. Over time the Leathernecks became as dim as
the cows they so closely resembled. Though every once and a rare while a Leatherneck is born
with enough intelligence to realize how terrible their situation is. It fractures their mind, but one
thing remains untouched, the urge to be free. So they run for freedom.

Mutations- (7) Hoofed feet, (12) horns, (40) leathery hide, (53) gigantic, (60) extra stomachs.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Sub-conscience, +2 to Skin.

Other Negatives- -1 from Learnable, -2 from Stored.

Randoms
Well i guess this will have to serve as a sort of last testimate. I’m not quite sure how much longer
i’m going to last in this town. I really wish it wasn’t written on the back of cocktail napkins. But
you work with what you have, i suppose. That is the one thing i have always been quite good at
doing. Working with what i have.
It all began began about a week ago. I hooked up with a group of mercs. Called themselves,
“The Rough Boys”. I’ve got to stop running with groups that have the word, “The” in their title.
It always means bad news. I thought We got hired by a guy by the name of Jackobee, Janius, or
something along those lines. I don’t know, i didn’t haggle the contract, which was my first
mistake. I would have been able to smell the lies a mile away. Stupid noobs...
At any rate, the job was a standard town sweep to rub out a local warlord. Doing good to remove
a real asshole. Things went well at first (as they always seem) but eventually news of our little
group spread. It still startles me to see just how fast bad news can spread through a group of
people.
That’s when it all started falling apart. Someone must have had a long arm because Tony got
tagged in the face (i kept on telling him to take cover). Then the warlord’s force made it’s self
known. They started working us with crossbows. After they started shooting, i got grazed on my
leg and they tried to flush us out of our cover with a grenade that Veteren sat on. So i thought it
would be good to dig in. Zeek, Philips, Moonbeam, Mother, and Staple joined me behind a
dumpster in an alleyway. It reeked of week old fish, but it kept us alive, and that’s what counts in
the end.
Things were looking grim, Philips was bleeding from a dozen holes, Mother was freaking out,
and Moonbeam couldn’t believe what was going on. Rookies… On top of this, the warlord’s
forces, which turned out to actually be the town’s defence force, were closing in. That was a
pleasant surprise for everyone. Nothing like realizing that you aren’t the do-gooder, you’re
actually the big bad villian. On top of that, my baby Sally was almost out of shells to blast those
dumb imbred rednecks with.
So i did what usually works. Rally everyone, wait until the defence force closed in, then blast a
hole in the line with a lucky grenade lob, and run for it. I dragged Philips with Moonbeam
following, but the rest stayed pinned down. They were too shaken to do much of anything. So i
had to leave them. The locals didn’t seem too keen on our method of introducing ourselves. But
the others thought they would be alright if they surrendered. Those leaving hobbled down a few
alley ways, the sounds of gunfire and killing got further and further away. After what seemed to
be a lifetime, our jolly group busted into a great little watering hole, The Broken Spoke.
What a hole it was. But who can complain when drinks were on the house for everybody?
Though it eased my spirit out, it carried Philips to the grave. Moonbeam seems to be getting a
grip at long last. The rest of the group is probably either dead or captured.
Damn it why do i always have to do all the work? Looks like i’ll have to go and save the day. Yet
another town i’ll be vilafied in.
If i don’t make it, know that we didn’t know what we were doing. At least i didn’t know.
-Hannibal.

Physical Description- The Random strain is an interesting strain that’s united by their unique
appearance. The Randoms all fall into the “other” category of stable genetic lines. They don’t
belong to any of the other strains. They could have some of the other strains characteristics, but
not enough to fully fit in. Usually the Randoms have characteristics that are unique and not
possessed by the other strains. The physical traits of each individual Random varies from person
to person. They could look untouched just like the Immune, or they could have a Leatherneck’s
good looks, or even a Rotter’s filthiness. Point is the Randoms are all classified by the inability
to be classified into any other strain.

Mental Description- The Randoms can go in any particular direction of mental stability.
Some
Randoms are blessed with mental clarity, vision, and unique insights to the world. Other
randoms are not so lucky. They suffer delusion, obsession, and any other madness available.
Thankfully the bulk of Randoms have enough mental stability to keep themselves presentable to
the world.

Names- The Randoms names are nearly as random as the strain’s mutations. Random objects,
places, family names, or any other names that the other strains would use are suitable for
Randoms. A random sampling of Random’s names is; Herb Liencher, Lord Gothington,
Spotsylvania, Dewy Decimal.

Home- The Randoms live wherever they feel comfortable, from crumbling pre-plague housing,
post plague shanties made from the bones of the pre-plague world.

Family Description- To go with the rest of the Random’s randomness, their family structures are
pretty specific to the family itself. They have no set or even preferred set up of family. They’ll
range from huge extended families that span generations to a single “lone wolf ” who roams
alone.

Religion- The Randoms can be found knelling before any diety that is worshiped around. The
range of idols that the Randoms include everything from forbidden ancient evils to fururistic false
idols.

Reasons for Adventuring- Randoms adventure for any reason thought of, cast their lot in a
with rough and tumble crews, to adventure for the sake of adventuring, to seeing the world, or
for the simple reason of making cold hard cash.

Preferred Arms and Armor- This comes down to the personal preference of the Random.
The strain does not lean to any particular direction when it comes down to it.

Usual Occupation- The occupation of Randoms really comes down to what jobs are available
for them. They can be found performing any job available.

Strain History- The Random stable genetic strains demonstrate the most dreadful effect of the
syrum, it can’t ever be predicted. Some people were turned into their dinners. Others were
turned into their injuries. There are two strains who’s traits are just the roll of the dice. The
Randoms and the Wretched. Thankfully the Randoms are much more stable than the
Wretched. As it is the Randoms deomonstrate a particular fact about the newly “enhanced”
human genome. The genes are passed from mother to child. In the case of two different strains
mating the mother’s strain dominates the fathers and the child will be the mother’s genetic strain.
The Randoms are unique in the fact that the child can and often will have traits that neither the
mother nor the father have. Thus is their title of Randoms.

Mutations- Randoms have 1d10 mutations at creation that are rolled for randomly, of course.

Other Bonuses- +1 to any attribute, +2 to any attribute.

Other Negatives- -1 from any attribute, -2 from any attribute.

Red Herrings
Captain’s log of the Zephyr
27.000.13.26 Took on 3 passengers for what will be the ship’s 27th voyage. The 3 passengers are
Jonny Smith, Madame Moovilis Bovine, and Proteus Tronics. I have my reservations about
taking a stinking, diseased rotter onboard, especially with the curse of rotters and all. But the coin
was good and who knows, maybe we’ll be the first ship to survive a long term trip with a rotter.
They hired us to steam up the coast to try to find some wrecked ship. Their gear took bloody
forever to load. 13 and a half hours loading and refueling to be exact. After final preparations
are completed we’ll be away.
27.004.44.54 It’s been nearly 5 days of steaming up the coast. We’ve not had much adventure,
which is nice for a change of pace for us. One Eyed Vic pull a great gag on our guests earlier
today. He shut down our engines and started shouting over and over “Fire in the engine room!
Abandon ship! Abandon ship!” Before you could blink the whole group of pansies jumped right
over the rail into the sea. It was a riot. I almost peed myself laughing so hard at them. I’m so
glad i brought that wretch of a first mate onboard all those years ago. Our passengers eventually
climbed back onboard and after they dried off they finished unpacking their gear all over the
ship. Now we can’t step anywhere without tripping over it. Odd thing was even though their
gear was old, beaten up, and quite well worn, it was really fancy and it looked to be working.
Otherwise nothing to report.
27.011.01.26 We’ve finally stumbled on what the passengers were searching for. It’s a ship that’s
beached on a sand bar about three miles off shore. The wreck is about 362 miles north of Port
Birch-wood. The wreckage seems to be of a post-plague warship. Pretty nasty looking thing if
you ask me. So my crew and i set anchor about 150 yards off the wreck. Proteus begged me for
the use of our dingy, and being the fool I am, I couldn’t say no to those eyes.
27.018.59.59 Well it’s the last few minutes of our 7th day at this wreck. I had Proteus dine with
me in my private quarters this evening. I don’t care what the rest of the crew says, especially
Thirtyaught. He’s had his own fugly dates himself. Anyway Proteus is convinced that the
wrecked ship, the Vanguard, has some astounding gear hidden in it. All the equipment he
brought he’s using to try and get the Vanguard seaworthy again. Truth is even though he smells
like a dead cat, he could talk about anything and i’d be happy to just get lost in his stunning eyes.
27.024.13.26 We’ve been camped out here for nearly 14 days. Proteus says he and his people
can get their gear stowed in a day or two. For our sake and theirs, i hope they can. We’re
running low on food and fresh water. I don’t care if they just need a few more days to get the
Vanguard seaworthy, we are running out of supplies.
27.024.13.26 Fucking hell. I take five minutes away from the helm to see Proteus and we run
aground. Thankfully it’s low tide, so with a lot of hard work and luck we’ll get back in the sea
soon. We just need to patch the hole below the water line. I just hope that the approaching
storm holds out until we can get back out to sea to weather it out.
30.???.??.?? Well it’s been three days of the worst storm i’ve ever seen. We couldn’t fix the boat
before the tide came back. The rest of the crew and passengers all voted to weather the storm on
land instead of the boat. Thankfully we were not on the ship, the storm destroyed it and threw
the pieces to the four corners of the world. So this is my final entry in the captain’s log. We’re
going to try to follow the shore south and find any town we can. This is Captain Meri Time, of
the ship, The Zephyr signing off for the last time.

Physical Description- There is something fishy about the Red Herring. Their skin isn’t quite
right, their eyes are funny looking, their hands and feet are weird, and they’re always wheezing
for some reason or another. Their skin isn’t quite right because instead of skin, it’s actually scales.
Small, tight fitting, hard, and slimey scales that always seem to glisten in the sunlight. And these
scales are hard enough to act as protection form incoming blows. Their eyes are funny looking
because firstly Red Herrings have no eye lids. Secondly they eyes are huge. Freakishly huge.
They can just about see behind themselves with those peepers. The hands and feet of Red
Herring is weird because between their fingers and toes there is a web of skin, or scale rather.
Finally the Red Herrings wheeze thanks to both a set of lungs and a set of gills fighting to
provide the body with air to breath.

Mental Description- Red Herrings have an interesting duality to their personalities. When
they are out on the water, or even deep in the water, they are very calm and at peace with
themselves. They can still be upset, bothered, or annoyed, just not to any significant degree.
They feel empowered and in control of the world around them. Yet when they set out on the
land, the Red Herring instantly become a paranoid, superstitious group. Even with their all
seeing eyes, they still constantly scan the landscape for some unseen threat. They believe in odd
coincidences as omens, and obey eccentric superstitions such as never starting a landfall on a day
that starts with the letter, “T”. Get them back to the waters that they so love and they quickly
ease back into themselves and relax.

Names- With their moods so relaxed and at ease in the waters of the world, Red Herring
naturally take their names from anything that has to do with the seas. Mostly to do with sailor
jargon, but bodies of water also serve as their names, such as; Long I. Tude, Star Port, Euphrates,
or Rappohannock.

Home- No land loving home for these wanderers. Every Red Herring calls some boat their
home, they may not own the boat, but they’ll call it home none the less. These boats can be
single simple houseboats, or they can be flotilla of miss-matched ships roaming the seas. Red
Herrings also have home ports. They are places that they stop most often at to resupply their
ships before going back out to sea. These ports can be cities along coasts, caches on isolated
islands, or even underwater cities hidden beneath the seas.

Family Descriptions- With Red Herring spending so much time out on the turbulent,
unpredictable waters of the world, they naturally have to rely heavily on their crew mates to
survive the dangers. As such the Red Herrings eventually fall out of touch with their biological
families and replace them with their fellow crew mates. They find parents in those who rank
above them on the ship, children in the ranks below them, and lovers anywhere they can.

Reason for Adventuring- Red Herrings suffer a condition. They all are afflicted with a
wanderlust that is incurable. Every single one has a need for adventure in their blood. It’s just
the way that they are. And if they’re going do adventure anyway, the Red Herrings figure that
they might as well earn their keep while fulfilling their need for excitement in their lives.

Religion- The Red Herrings can’t stand the idea of being tied to anything in particular.
Especially religion. It’s not that they don’t believe in higher powers, or dieties, they just don’t
want to get tied up in the pomp and circumstance of it all. The closest thing to a religious
practice is the rituals they perform when they are on land, but those are more superstitions and
old wives tales that they employ to “protect” themselves.

Preferred Arms and Armor- To make their time out at sea longer with less need to stop port
side and repair their items, Red Herring opt for simpler weapons and armor. Simple metal plates
crudely pounded and cut into the vauge proper shape held on with string. Or even just plain ol’
clothes. For weapons they like crude blunderbusses, bows, and sturdy clubs to keep things simple
and reliable in the water.

Usual Occupations- This’ll come as a surprise, but Red Herrings find occupation as pirates
and seamen. They have advantages on the water, a great love for the water, a house on the water,
and a fear of the water. With the other strains not as well adjusted to the water, the Red Herring
oblige the other strains and help them on the seas, oceans, and lakes. That or they just take
advantage of their advantages and turn to a life of piracy and steal all that they could ever need
or want.

Strain History- For as long as man lived, those closest to the seas turned to them for sustinence.
Fish and various aquatic creatures made the bulk of their diet. They eventually turned to the
seas to earn their money and such. Many of these coastal people became Red Herrings after
taking the syrum and learning of it’s dastardly side effects. When the governments began to
shake and crumble, the Red Herrings took to the water to avoid the problems. Alas the anarchy
on the land quickly followed out to sea with the classic tradition of piracy. When things began to
settle, the Red Herring made more and more frequent stops back to land to reestablish contact
with the rest of the world.

Mutations- (8) Webbed hands and feet, (18) gills, (19) fish eyes, (41) scales,
(58) air bladder.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Sub-conscience, +2 to Muscles.

Other Negatives- -1 from Tendons, -2 from Senses.

Rotters
“The Adventures of Atomic Andy and Robo Boy. Twiddle Dee and Twiddle Doom.”
Written by Atomic Andy
When we last left our intrepid hero and his inept side-kick they were deep in the dungeon of the
super sexy Sorphfeenia. They were captured in an intricate plot they first stumbled upon three
books ago, in “The Adventures of Atomic Andy and Robo Boy. Electric Eel Tango.”
Sorphfeenia lured the daring duo into a brilliant trap using Robo Boy’s one weakness. His love
for his pet electric eel. Let’s see how they’re going to get out of this jam.
“Gee Robo Boy we’re in quite a pickle, aren’t we?” Atomic bravely spoke.
“Man you know I hate it when you call me that. I’m 25, and you know my name is Jeremy Bolt.
But yeah, things do look pretty grim.”
As they spoke with one another they tested their bonds. Alas Sorphfeenia does a good job when
she catches her prey in her deceptive web. Both Atomic Andy and Robo Boy knew this. The
only hope for them was to wait until the perfect opportunity presented itself for their valiant
escape. Our brave hero did his best in the meantime to raise their sinking spirits.
“Well keep your spirits up. Things can’t be that-”
“-good for you.” interrupted Sorphfeenia, “Fings are looking fery fery bad for you. You have
fallen prey to the unbeatable Sorphfeenia!” proclaimed the devilish wretch.
“You shall not get away with this, fiend! No matter how beautiful you may be!” shouted Atomic.
“Hey she-bitch, lemme outta here or I'm gonna F you up. Now!” assisted Robo Boy.
“Ok I’ll let you out for now. I’ll let you out then i’ll put you into a barracuda infested pool of
doom! Muha muhaha muhahaha!” cackled the crazed Sorphfeenia.
With that Sorphfeenia called her two trusted henchmen, Twiddle Dumber and Twiddle
Dumbest. The pudgy thugs plodded down the stairs to Sorphfeenia.
“Huh huh huuuh. What do you want boss lady?” stammered Twiddle Dumber.
“Uhh yea whatcha need boss?” asked Twiddle Dumbest.
“Lower fe prisoners into the baracuda tank. Slowly. If fey resist, shoot fem.”
“Umm. Uhh. Boss we don’s have any shooters.” Twiddle Dumbest pondered.
“Fen beat them instead.” the exasperated Sorfpheenia shouted. With a heavy sigh she continued,
“It’s so hard to find good fugs nowa days,” she muttered under her breath.
With that the dumpy, dimwitted, devilish minions unchained Atomic Andy and his sidekick,
Robo Boy off the wall. Twiddle Dumber lead the two heroes to the barracuda tank.
“Boy this will be tough one to get out of.” announced A. A.
Will the defiant duo escape?
Will Robo Boy ever get Atomic Andy’s respect?
Why does Sorphfeenia speak so oddly?
To find the the answers to these questions and more, check out the next installment of “The
Adventures of Atomic Andy and Robo Boy. Barracuda Love.”
About the Author
Atomic Andy is the awesome author that wrote this epic story. All the events are based on his
real life exploits and adventures. Yes he did do all of this. No he’s not making this up. Atomic
Andy lives on his quiet ranch with his four dogs and his good old buddy, Robo Boy.

Physical Description- Imagine, if you will, the worst symptoms from diseases. Bloating,
pustules, rashes, rot, and inflammation. Then add in the symptoms of radiation poisoning,
burns, patchy hair loss, and glow. For dramatic flair, top it all off with a poor personal hygene.
Gross, huh? That’s what a Rotter is like. They are walking contagons. This is their curse. They
are infected with a wide array of diseases and they happen to be irradiated enough to glow at
night. Otherwise they are pretty normal looking people.

Mental Description- Rotters have a singular attribute that collectively shapes all of their
mentality to be very similar. The Rotters are all incapable of dying of old age. Other sources of
death work just fine on Rotters, just not old age. As such, they all have personalities much like
your grandparents. They idealize the past, hate the present, refer to things you never knew
existed and didn’t mind not knowing about, and they always walked everywhere. The Rotters
are also a little forgetful about the little things. Not enough to make much of a difference, but a
quark they all possess.

Names- With their love for the past, disfigurement, and an unexplained latching onto the
1950’s, Rotters pick cheeky names from science fiction sources. Being so old, they commonly
forget, butcher, and otherwise mangle their names so it could be subject to change at any time.
Some memorable examples are; Buck Starr, Edith Neutrenio, or Evan T. Horizon.

Home- Rotters have an affinity for any pre-plague site, especially diseased or irradiated places.
They love the rustic atmosphere, it reminds them of their younger days, and if it’s the site of a
major toxic waste spill all the better. No more annoying door to door salespeople.

Family Description- Most Rotters enjoy the life of a swinging single. Most people won’t
spend any time in any kind of proximity to a Rotter, let alone enough to form a relationship.
From time to time a group of Rotters will ban together and form a community together in a
wretched land full of toxins and radiation. When a Rotter forms a family, they ironically enough,
form nuclear families of a husband, wife, and 2.5 children. These families last for a while then
disband when the members tire of one another. Or forget where they live.

Reasons for Adventuring- Old age makes you feel tired all the time. Rotters being as old as
the hills feel this more keenly than any others around. Most days they’re content to just watch
the world go by outside the window. Though every once and a while they get the urge to get up
an do something, even if their aching bones say otherwise. So they slowly bring themselves to get
out of the house and do something, anything. Thus they end up earning the maximum money
for the minimum work.

Religion- The idolization of the good ol’ days and everything from the past also extends to the
Rotter’s religion. They are the some of the major members of the Order of the Analogue. They
revere technology devloped and created before the plague. Devices dealing with radiation and
the harnessing of hold a very special place in Rotter’s hearts. Chief among these devices is the
fearsome nuclear weapon, which is hailed the apex of all branches of technology.

Weapons and Armor- When it comes to weapons and armor, Rotters are pack rats. They
hold onto every little weapon or scrap of armor that they ever use. Most maintain at least one
suit and a few weapons, “from their glory days”. These weapons and armor are usually very well
worn, very old, and very well maintained. Rotters take quite a bit of pride in making sure that
the bits from their good ol’ days still function just as well as it did the day it was produced. After
all, they just don’t make it like they used to.

Occupation- Rotters all have a very unique job skill that makes them vital and prevents the
whole strain from being eradicated. They may be disgusting, infectious, and irradiated, but they
can withstand nearly any biological, chemical, or radioactive danger around. Having a very
unique ability like this, the Rotters seek to work in areas that are normally too hazardous to
spend any time in. The jobs they perform in the hazardous areas could be mundane tasks such
as cleaning to advanced scientific processes in less than optimal laboratories.

Strain History- The plague decimated the populations of the world and hamstrung the
governments. Rival governments saw opertunities to settle old rivalries long since seething.
Countries emptied their stockpiles of nuclear and chemical weapons onto one another. Those
with sense and luck hid deep underground in fallout shelters. The world was very lucky in that
the previous estimates were grossly wrong in the mutually assured destruction. The nuclear
weapons did cause great devistation, but most missed or failed to detonate. The survivors who
were safely hidden deep in fallout shelters eventually ventured forth to see what was left of the
world. Many were greeted by a new friend, radiation. Remembering the wonderful side effects
of the syrum, and forgetting it’s disasterous ones, they injected the syrum as soon as they could.
The end result is a genetic strain that is perpetually wracked by disease, chemical weapon effects,
and radiation side effects for the whole of their lives. As the remains of the world became more
and more violent, the Rotters used their special abilities to survive inhospital conditions and have
kept that part of the job market all theirs.

Mutations- (54) Preserved, (66) rotted flesh, (74) passage of death, (79) absent minded, (84) glows.

Other Bonuses- +2 to Stored, Immune to Radiation.

Other Negatives- -2 from Skin, -1 from Senses.

Sinects
Lab Report 1-216-198-3
Submitted by Eigh Ix.
Object 37251- Device is approx. 6” x 1.5” x 2”. Object is composed of a hard plastic
outer shell with delicate silicone circuit boards, small motors, and electronic components inside.
Device is portable audio replaying device (see Walkman). Disassembled and inspected
components. Circuitry is inoperative due to sharp, blunt impacts. Motor units are functional
and were removed and submitted to main storage. Remaining components disposed of.
Personal Comments- Next time don’t play hackie sack with the loot guys. I mean if you are that
desperate to be entertained, there’s always plenty of gear to log, catalogue, repair, and maintain
down here.
Object 37252- Device is approx. 52” x 2.25” x 6”. Object is mostly composed of steel
with some plastic rubber on the extremities of the “handles.” Long 2” steel pipe with vice grip
pliers ⅓ the distance from the capped side. One side of pipe is capped with a modified steel pipe
cap. Pipe cap has heavy spring attached with cut nail attached to spring. Inside pipe, secured by
the cap was a 12 gauge shotgun shel (live, heavily reloaded). Shell was submitted to the armory.
Remaining components submitted to shop’s supply.
Personal Comments- It’s a fucking pipe rifle! Stupid inbred retards. I played with better toys as
a baby. GET OVER IT!!!
Object 37253- Object is approx. 3” x 2” x 1”. Object is composed of burlap fabric with
hair on the top, moss innards and charcoal markings on the surface. Small hand stitched
humanoid doll. Hair looks to be real human? Innards are unconfirmed composition. Details
(face, fingers, etc) painted with what appears to be charcoal.
Personal Comments- Cute doll, if not a little creepy. Considered giving doll to one of the
compound’s children, but thought better of it and disposed of it. Why is it everything those
Wretched make is inherently creepy?
Object 37254- Object is approx. 67” x 35” x 28”. Object is composed of many metals.
Exact composition is unknown as of yet pending further investigation. Large, heavily tarnished
box-like shape. Appears to be a heavily cannibalized car engine. It would look to have been
converted into a generator of sorts. Initial inspection shows that the engine block is fused
together, rendering it useless. There may be salvageable material.
Personal Comments- It’s fucked. The block is one fused lump of steel, all the gaskets are
cracked or broken, wiring is half melted, and it’s got a dozen bullet holes and a trophy arrow
lodged in it. Nice work boys. Real nice.
Object 37255- Object is approx. 13” x 3” x 3”. Object is composed of clear, high
quality, tempered glass. Tall glass tube with flat base. Tube has markings in equal spacing up the
sides and numbers correspond with the lines. Glass appears to be without cracks, flaws, or
imperfections. Retained for lab use.
Personal Comments- A real tool! I can’t believe these primates brought back an unbroken
graduated cylinder. I can’t wait to use it!

Physical Description- Sinects look like oversized bugs. They have hardened and pearlescant
shells instead of normal skin. The shell has the look of a pearl, in that the it has a primary color
as the majority of the color, with wisps of secondary colors snaking through out the shell. This
shell is also hard enough to protect the Sinect from a fair deal of damage. As if the shell wasn’t
enough, they have extra limbs attached at the back of their rib cage. The extra limbs numbers
vary from 1 to 10 and may be less than an even number due to limb loss. The extra limbs are
very similar to the Sinects normal arms, except instead of hands the limb has a single long
“finger” that is about the size of a hand with two small “fingers” coming off the side. This allows
very rudementary use of the limb, but no fine motor skills. To go with all these extra limbs, the
Sinects also have extra eyes arrayed out on the top and front of the character’s head. The
number of eyes range also from 1 to 10 thanks to all those games that the Sinect’s parents said,
“Will put your eye out!”. The extra eyes are fully functioning with the eye color being the same
for all the eyes. The final physical characteristic of Sinects isn’t much of an outward appearance,
but a personality quark all share. Sinects are fidgety and have a lot of trouble staying still, even
while they sleep. They try their best, but if they’re not busy doing some kind of work or activity
they start fidgeting and getting themselves in trouble.

Mental Description- As previously mentioned, the Sinects are all very fidgety. If they’re not
doing something a this very exact second, then they become bored. When they’re bored, they
can get themselves into a lot of trouble by coming up with and performing fiddling with things
that they really shouldn’t fiddle with. Sinects also become grumpy when not actively engaged in
some activity that keeps them occupied. While occupied they are perfectly friendly and kind.
Even despite massive work loads and unrealistic deadlines hovering.

Names- Sinects live in large families. These families typically end up with very large numbers of
children, parents, grand parents, cousins, aunts, uncles, best friends, and anyone else that wishes
to, all living together. As such Sinect parents ran out of ideas for children’s names. Thus began
the Sinect practice of naming their children after some sort of numbering system to keep track of
how many there really were. As such most Sinects have names that are numbers, military ranks,
or even serial numbers. A good example of those are, X13-14J and Iye Ecks.

Home- To accomidate such large families and family groups, the Sinects all get together in huge
buildings that they take over as a community. Warehouses, airplane hangers, and factories make
good locations for Sinect hives. These hives will have some sort of personally rigged dividers to
seperate the families from one another and allow a little privacy for the inhabitatants.

Family Description- Sinects have very large families. It’s not that they are particularly fertile
or prolific about breeding, they just end up with large immediate families. That combined with
their love to keep their extended families together as on cohesive unit, lead to the Sinects forming
“hives” to live together in. The hives are a misnomer in that there is no central hive queen or
sinister hive intelligence. The Sinects are all indepentent people very capable of making their
own decisions. As such the Sinects all grow up with very strong ties to their hive and are safe in
there is always a friendly place for them to run if things go poorly.
Reasons for Adventeruring- The huge hives require lots of food, water, building materials,
and a ton of odds and ends to entertain everyone. These things are not free. So to pay for and
aquire these things Sinects send lucky members of their hive get to go out into the world and
provide for their family. Selection of the lucky ones is volunteers first and that failing, the hive
will have a randomized selection process.

Religion- Sinects aren’t a particularly religious strain. They are typically more concerned about
providing enough for their families, surviving the dangers of the world, and maybe even finding a
little time to entertain themselves. The process of dissassembling, repairing, and recreating
mechanical devices soothes their scattered brains and gives them something to focus on. That
being said, given their technical prowess, a slight majority of Sinects find themselves in the
technological cult of the Order of the Analogue. Those not with the Order of the Analogue
simply find themselves surviving day to day without any thoughts or concerns about religion
though.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Most often finding themselves in a machine shop, Sinects will
draw their weapons and armor from the tools they use daily. When lacking, or perhaps looking
to upgrade, they will sneak time in the sophisticated shops and produce upgrades themselves.
With their own six hands. While they may not always produce “conventional” arms and armor,
Sinect devices are prized by those who understand the skill and prowess that the Sinects possess.

Usual Occupation- With their extra limbs and inability to remain still, Sinects find themselves
very comfortable and happy in positions of laborers and mechanics. Analyzing the way that a
device fits together, crafting a complex device from scratch, assembling hundreds of delicate and
detailed devices all works wonders to keep a Sinect’s wandering mind occupied.

Strain History- Rumors are a funny thing. They can make people do very redicilious things
under mistaken ideas and theories. Such is the source of the Sinects. As the plague ravashed the
world, there was a brief rumor, before the Syrum was released, that consuming specific insects
would provide immunity to the plague. Desperation ensued and many people devoured huge
numbers of creepy crawlers. Alas it didn’t work. Unhindered by this, people continued to eat
those bugs right until they recieved their warping injection of the Syrum. Thus was born the
Sinects.

Mutations- (10) Extra limbs, (25) exoskeleton, (65) adhesion, (67) extra eyes, (91) wiry.

Other Bonuses- +1 to Sub-conscience, +2 to Tendons.

Other Negatives- -2 from Stored, -1 from Metabolism

Wretched
The following are some hints to help you break those particularly stubborn subjects. The advice
will be broken down based upon different strains owing to the different techniques required for
each strain.
Amoebas- Separate them from all other people and let them simmer a while. Without their little
helpers they themselves become helpless. Yet in some cases they have become somewhat
independent. In that case allow them the company of mirrors. The more the better. You’ll
know that they’re ready when they become quiet and stop threatening you.
Boars- Some of the toughest to crack. Unleash your most vile, despicable, underhanded skills on
them. Anything you would be afraid to let lose for moral reasons, do it. Be unrelenting and hope
that it is enough to crack them. Otherwise you will only harden their resolve.
‘Bots- Easiest way is to throw coin at them. Mercenaries to the last their only real lasting
commitment is to the almighty coin. That not being particularly fun nor cost effective, try using
water torture combined with a little electrocution. They despise water and the electrocution they
thankfully supply themselves.
Brains- Apply pain after building up the threat of pain. Before long they’ll sing their whole life
story. Be warned, push them too hard they’ll tell you anything they think will make you stop
hurting them. Learn to recognize the beginning of this and it will vastly improve your
interrogation of anyone.
Dryads- They must share a common thread with the rest of the forest. Fire and anything that
scalds them work wonders to loosen their tongues. Just go to work on them with a pair of pliers
and a blow torch.
Freaks- Remove their piercings one by one to get them warmed up. Then work on breaking
small frivolous bones, such as fingers and toes. Be warned, their secretions will gum up your best
tools, so be sure to remove it as it secretes.
Immune- Work on perfecting your classic techniques on these simpletons. Anything you need to
practice. They resist little and are easy to break. So no particular method is better than any
other.
Leathernecks- Impossible to break through physical pain. They are so resolved that it will only
serve to strengthen their resolve. The way to break them is to assault their minds and dogma.
Break their fragile minds or defile their twisted dogma and they will cry their sorrows and secrets
to you like you’re some kind bar tender that actually cares.
Red Herrings- Increase the temperature slowly, yet not so slowly that they do not notice. You
wouldn’t want them to miss out on the fun. Then let the temperature remain at the point where
their brains bake in their skulls. Watch for hallucinations and that will indicate the proper
temperature. They will tell you exactly when they’re ready to talk.
Rotters- By far the most unique strain. Simply place them in a room with an immune and let
their self loathing do the rest. It’s really simply too easy to worry about even claim credit for.
Sinects- Slowly crack their shells from the extremities inward. The breaking point is usually
around the thighs.
Fellow Wretched- Good luck to anyone who has to interrogate one of us. Unless you can find
that very personal chink in their armor, forget any hope in cracking them. Run through the
whole of your abilities and be sure to take your time. even if it takes you years to do it all.

Physical Description- The Wretched are a very unlucky strain. That’s even compaired to the
other strains. If you look hard enough one can find a rhyme or reason for each of the other
strains. The wretched aren’t so lucky. When the first Wretched took the syrum, something just
didn’t quite feel right. Before they knew it they had flailed in pain to such an extent that the
Wretched had snapped their own bones like twigs. The worst part is these injuries should have
killed them, yet they had a newfound regenerative bonus. Those two factors combined to give
the Wretched the unmistakable visage of twisted and broken husks. No two Wretched look
exactly the same, yet they are all very easily identifiable because of their warped limbs and
constant leer.

Family Description- None will deny that the Wretched are nasty folks, not even the Wretched
themselves. So when their family structure is described it shouldn’t be a surprise that the family
structure is nearly nonexistent. Procreation between the Wretched is a violent and nasty affair
with most not surviving the ordeal without physical or mental scars. Many die from the act and
it’s violent Wretched perpetrator. This factor would surely mean the end of the Wretched in no
time at all if not for a singular facet to the Wretched. They are the only strain that has their
reproductive system effected heavily by the syrum. The Wretched are blessed and cursed by
extreme fertility. It is not unusual for a Wretched to spawn 3 to 4 children per pregnancy.
Dreadful for the mother to be the infant Wretched are just as mean and bitter as the parents are
and will turn on the parent without a moment’s hesitation.

Mental Description- Given all of the pain that a Wretched has to deal with on a day to day
basis, they aren’t too friendly. Imagine, if you will, the worst body aches you’ve ever had. Like
the feeling of going 12 rounds with a prize fighter. Then add a skull splitting headache. The
kind of headache that makes you consider drilling a hole in your skull to relieve the pressure.
Now imagine this kind of pain being a good day for you. That is a sample of a Wretched’s life.
They discover very quickly that the only way to dull the pain is to inflict similar pain on others.
Be it with saber keen wit, the frenzy of combat, or just good ol’ torture. The Wretched all very
quickly become very mean and brooding characters that have little room for any other
annoyances in their lives. They are full of piss and vinegar and very little, if any, kindness is very
well hidden from the world.

Names- The common array of bone distortion among the Wretched also extends to their
mouthes. Jaws huge and gaping, pallets cleft six different ways, oversized and snaggled teeth are
some of the very common problems that Wretched face. Thanks to these troubles the
Wretched’s names are long strings of nearly impernouncable letters, such as Irglabegonan,
Grothaur, Mingl.

Home- With their tempermet, it’s no wonder that Wretched find it difficult to live in cities.
They either find their neighbors nigh unbearable or their neighbors find them nigh unbearable.
As such most Wretched just cut out the painful discovery of this and retreat to isolated hide-aways.
They like the solitude and quiet that a place away from the world can provide. These
holes can be elaborate places with many layers of traps and defenses to ward off unwelcomed
visitors. These traps are of the nonlethal sort with exception being near what the Wretched
considers their most important areas like prisoner detainment and their own personal living
space.

Religion- If the Wretched do decide to worship any religion, and heaven knows you can’t force
a Wretched to do anything they don’t want to, it is almost universally a form of pre plague
religion seeped in evil and counter culture. Such as the Born Again Satanists. That is not to say
that there aren’t atheistic Wretched. They mostly prefer to worship dieties that are as evil as they
think themselves.

Reasons for Adventuring- Many Wretched find that if you hurt others, it eases your pain.
Any ease no matter how tiny is a ray of sunshine in the dismal Wretched’s life. They also
discover that most people won’t stick around to be abused. So they have to strike out into the
world to attempt to find willing or even unwilling targets. With all of the unpleasantness going
on in the world, there is a great demand for people who can murder, maim, torture, and
generally make lives unpleasant. Why do what you love to do for free, when you can make
money at it? So the Wretched strike off into the world looking to inflict some pain and make
some money while they’re at it.

Preferred Arms and Armor- Part of the great joy of agonizing their fellow man is the fear of
what is to come. This is the Wretched’s finest wine. The fear that their unlucky target feels
dwelling on what rumors they have heard, imaging the worst that their minds can come up with,
and building the raw terror that sits heavy in their gut is savored by all Wretched. To heighten
this initial fear before any hand is laid upon flesh, the Wretched dress and brandish only the most
terrifying outfits and weapons. Human skins and bones, ancient pagan symbols, wickedly curved
blades, all manner of medical device, even self inflicted wounds are employed to heighten this
fear. Anything that also serves a use other than thearactical dressing is highly desired.

Usual Occupation- If it wasn’t already appearant, Wretched find themselves employed with
various unsavory types doing unspeakable things. They find nitches as interrogators, torturers,
and general meanies. Any job that pays and grants them the privilage of hurting others is
welcomed with open arms by the Wretched.

Strain History- The syrum caused terrific things to happen to those who took it. It healed
wounds, cured diseases, and saved lives. It also turned out to be cursed. It sundered human’s
genetic code with little respect to what was once “normal”. The strain that understands the
horrible effects of the syrum best would be the Wretched. From the second the syrum entered
their veins, it was as though ice water flew screaming through their bodies. Invariably the
screaming would start shortly after all the syrum was injected. Then shortly afterward the wild
flailing would set in. The Wretched would roll around on the ground with such furvor that their
bones would snap like chicken bones. The torment of agonizing pain wasn’t enough for the
unlucky Wretched. As they danced a jig of misery their bones would heal at an astonishing rate.
While it may seem like a blessing, these broken bones didn’t have the time to be set properly, as
such arms were bent at un-natural angles fingers extended to horrid lengths, shattered teeth
splintered into new individual fangs. Those who’s strength of will survived the first 24 hours
were rewarded with a lifetime of aching pain and twisted bodies. Thus began the legacy of great
anger and hatred that all Wretched actively participate in.

Mutations- (5) Cancerous, (6) elongated limbs, (14) solid ribcage, (24) abnormally shaped bones, 
double jointed (90).

Other Bonuses- +1 to Muscles, +2 to Tendons.

Other Negatives- -1 from Bones, -2 from Skin.
